[music]
>> There are a lot of tailwinds supporting
the economy for next year. I do have to
see an economy that keeps struggling
along. If it doesn't, [music]
you're going to have a problem.
>> One of the key themes that we've noted
for this year is people [music] really
underpricing kind of the macro risk.
>> We still have a problem with inflation.
There's certainly a risk here that you
could see inflation that's a bit more
sticky. This is Bloomberg Surveillance
with Jonathan [music]
Ferro, Lisa Abramowitz, and Anne Marie
Hoardern.
Good morning. Welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance. Traders looking for this
year to end as AI worries overwhelm
enthusiasm. Stocks firmly in the red now
for the month after four straight days
of losses. Looking for glimmers of
optimism, whether from fiscal stimulus
and central banks with the Bank of
England [music] and ECB on deck, and the
state of the US economy in focus as we
await the first inflation read since
September. Danny Burger alongside me for
the next few hours. Danny, to me, this
really is going to be the key tell,
especially after what we
>> heard from the president. CPI and
jobless claims very much on deck.
>> It's a It's a big day, but when you talk
to people or even look at what's priced
in to this options market, it's a shrug.
It's [music] outdated. Do we care? I
think we have to care. Considering what
we heard from the president to your
point, considering [music] we're likely
to get more cuts from the central bank,
that is dual stimulus. How in that world
can we get inflation back to 2%?
>> Yeah, are we in an economy with a labor
market needs to be a more in focus or
inflation needs to be more [music] in
focus? Joining us for the rest of the
hour, I'm so pleased to say is ADP Chief
Economist Nela Richardson. Nela, to what
extent have we seen the market move on
from inflation [music] without the
inflation data to justify that type of
sentiment?
>> Today may pull [music] it back to
inflation. We'll see, but I think there
is has been a head shift to [music] the
labor market, rightly so in my opinion.
But the labor market is really the
source [music] of two things. It's the
source of growth because the consumer is
real well anchored to the labor market,
but it also is the source of that maybe
>> [music]
>> secondary rate cut that they're looking
for early next year. So, it they're
looking for two different things coming
out of the labor market, but the
inflation data today may change that
story. [music]
>> And it would be the first inflation read
since September, and we aren't going to
get month-over-month inflation reads
[music] because guess what? The
government was shut down and we don't
have that comp. In the meantime, looking
for optimism, getting a little bit of a
lift from Micron shares after they
reported earnings that had a very
different tone than what we saw from the
likes of Broadcom [music] or Oracle.
Talking about how demand is just so far
outstripping supplies that essentially
they can raise prices, [music] which is
why you're seeing those shares up almost
11% a massive beat. Can this turn around
some of the AI sentiment?
>> to just the narrative whiplash that
we've had on AI that one day we're
worried about data center fundings and
the next day there are shortages when it
comes to chips. [music]
If anything though, Micron just
highlights it's still the picks and
shovel trade, which is working so well.
We really tried to broaden out, and be
it with the hyperscalers, be it [music]
with maybe software plays that can
benefit. That has been really volatile.
What has worked are these companies
[music] who are saying there's still a
shortage and prices are elastic because
of that, so we're going to bring in a
whole lot of cash.
>> So, how much comfort can we get from
this? Right now in markets, we [music]
do see a little bit of a lift. Futures
higher. Let's try this again to stop a
four-day losing streak, although we did
this yesterday and we did this the day
before up 4/10 of a percent ahead of the
open on S&P futures at euro-dollar cross
117. And you do see yields markedly
inward. Maybe this will give some people
a feeling of confidence as they await
that sort of push-pull between jobs and
inflation. 10-year yields [music] at
4.13%.
Coming up this hour, Beata Manthey of
Citigroup as stocks look to find their
footing. Henrietta Treyz of Evitar
Partners as President [music] Trump
defends the US economy and Terry Weisman
of Macquarie with a trio of global
central bank decisions ahead. We begin
this hour, stocks trying to climb higher
as investors await the latest inflation
data. Beata Manthey of Citigroup
remaining constructive on equities in
2026, but writing volatility could
remain elevated amid continued
reassessment of the AI theme, cracks in
the United States soft landing, and
demanding valuations which could cap
upside. Beata joins us now. Beata, thank
you so much for being with us. There was
a new survey from Deutsche Bank talking
about the risks ahead into 2026. The
overwhelming consensus is that AI
valuations and a potential popping of
some of those elevated expectations is
the biggest risk heading into next year.
Do you agree?
Good morning. There are many risks, but
as you've read out in our report, it is
it is the on the top of our risk list,
definitely. What high valuations make to
stock market prices? They make them more
volatile and
more vulnerable to any news flow. And as
you've discussed before, the news flow
on the AI story will remain volatile as
well. So, it's going to be a fight
between good and bad news. At this
point, this is a reason why I think some
people are saying, "Okay, what are we
missing?" Because ultimately, if there
is such a consensus in one thing, that
usually makes people nervous. What is
the thing people are not watching that
could be a major market driver into
2026, whether it's a shift away from AI,
whether it's a shift away from the
United States?
So, our view is that consensus is for
over-delivery of earnings, and that's
how the market is priced in. So, we have
that model that is trying to capture
what kind of EPS outlook is priced in by
the stock market. And I have to say,
across all the major markets around
around the world,
all the equity indices are priced for
over-delivery of earnings. So, the
pressure is on for earnings not only to
deliver according to analysts'
forecasts. Actually, the expectation is
for them to go higher.
Not just earnings, Beata, but what about
margins? There were two stories
yesterday. One, General Mills saying
that they were lowering the price of
products among 2/3 of their of their
products in North America. Then there
was Lennar, the homebuilder, saying that
they've had to cut costs and offer
incentives to get Americans to buy
housing, too. Beata, are we going to
start to see some serious margin
pressure materialize next year?
We haven't seen too much happening yet,
and where I sit in Europe, actually in
the year when tariffs have hit, we
actually have not seen too many margin
pressures yet. Where it could come from,
of course, is the issue of the of the
tariffs on the US on the US companies.
So, the the the the scared the fear
beforehand has been that we would have
double whammy here in Europe through
strong effects and also tariff hit AI
exporters paying for tariffs. Now, we
know it's evident in the data that
tariffs are being paid by the importer
side, and for now, 70% of these tariffs
in the US is paid by the corporate side
and 30 for the consumer. So, if that
continues on certain level certain parts
of the equity market, you could have
some margin pressures. But overall, when
you
and I'm quoting here our US strategist
Scott Chronert, when you look at the
composition of S&P, the margin
the companies that are that could have
margin pressures are
are not the majority and they are not
the huge market caps, right? Right, and
this comes back to AI, right, Beata?
Because that's what's been driving this
market, but their business models have
also changed. They're not asset-light
anymore. They're taking out a lot of
debt. Their cash flow has been
substantially lowered, and in the uh
case of Oracle, it's turned into a cash
burn. Should these big tech companies
get the same valuations? If you are
analyzing high valuations, the
justification came from the fact that
they were asset-light. Do we need to
completely rethink how we model out the
valuations and earnings of these
companies?
You can you could have arguments for
both ways that ways that the valuations
are too high, they should come down, but
uh because of the arguments that that
you've just
enumerated. However, an argument for
continuation of seeing high valuations
could be the fact that actually, when
you look at valuations, what do they
have in them? They only have 12 months
forward uh EPS, right? For for these
mega themes, structural or
the themes like like AI, perhaps the it
is justifiable to price in more than
just 12 months forward EPS, and and
actually it should be right.
Good morning. With AI being a huge
driver of the the equities globally, how
important is the consumer and the
consumer resilience going into 2026 in
your outlook for the the markets?
It is always very important, and of
course, in the US, you could have some
pressures. So, our view is the view of
our economists is that there is more
softness in the labor market in the US
that it's seen at the at the top level.
This is why our economies have
two consecutive cuts coming into the
next year
out
out of the Fed. When it comes to the
consumer elsewhere in the world, in
Europe, for example, where I sit, the
consumer has been weaker and subdued.
However, we have huge amount of savings
in the
in the banks' accounts right now. Now,
there'll be different drivers of the
economic activity in different parts of
the world. In Europe, actually, Europe
is becoming the growth in Europe is
becoming more investment-driven, so we
have a huge huge fiscal
stimulus going on. That's going to drive
the growth, perhaps not so much consumer
itself in in the first line. It's more
the government investments, and then
consumer could come along later on. So,
very different drivers of of of growth
between different parts of the world, I
would say. But overall,
still resilient growth when you add it
all together. Beata Manthey of
Citigroup, thank you so much. And Beata
is talking about the potential for
fiscal stimulus over in Europe when
Germany announced it will increase
federal debt sales by a fifth next year
to about $601 billion. So, it just
highlights how the drivers of growth are
changing in the United States. It's both
the consumer being strong, but also this
idea that we might get fiscal, as we
heard last night, 1776, as well as
potentially monetary policy easing. How
much I mean, does that really support
the outlook for the consumer Neil at a
time when there are real existential
questions about the fundamental labor
market? I mean, enter a new actor in
2026, fiscal spending. Um, we saw fiscal
contraction in 2025, especially with all
the the dodge cuts. Imagine investment
not only in the US, but in Europe, in
which you
leads to more hiring, um, more capital
spending. It could be quite stimulative.
Uh, and we have the infrastructure
projects in need of that kind of
investment, not just, uh, AI, but
physical infrastructure. So, it could
lead to a a boom in some ways.
>> I think the fly in the ointment in that
though is does the bond market finally
start caring again? Scott Lincicome of
Cato Institute pointed out that with the
most recent checks that Trump wants to
issue that he talked about last night to
military families, that's the 10th thing
he said that he would fund with tariffs.
This is a market that started to treat
tariffs as something that can help the
deficit. What happens if you get that
fiscal spending and it's taken at the
cost of the money that supposedly is
coming in and if the bond market starts
to care, does that just tighten
conditions and act against everything
that they're trying to do? Frankly,
we've seen this already, right? The idea
of a steepening yield curve. Some people
say that it's just beginning and this is
the reason why even if the Fed cuts
rates significantly, it's not
necessarily going to be that stimulative
just because you are not seeing
long-term yields go down in the same
kind of way. We're going to get to that
in just a second, in particular with
that 1776 10th thing, as Scott Lincicome
said, that has been promised with a
tariff tax. Right now, let's get to an
update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here is your Bloomberg brief
with Yahaira Ona Yahaira. Good morning,
Lisa. Calls are [music] growing for the
EU to approve a massive loan to Ukraine
backed by frozen Russian assets. Without
[music] the support of Belgium, Kyiv's
finances are likely to run out in a
matter of months [music] without the
boost. Meanwhile, US and Russian
officials are set to meet in Miami this
weekend for continuing talks on a peace
plan.
Meanwhile, Micron shares are jumping
more than 11% in the pre-market after
blowing past estimates for the first
quarter and posting [music] better than
expected revenue guidance. The
semiconductor manufacturer is expecting
second quarter earnings to be nearly 80%
[music] higher than consensus estimates
as the firm benefits from the relentless
demand for memory chips used in [music]
data centers.
And oil giant BP has appointed Meg
O'Neill as its next CEO. O'Neill comes
to the company as an outsider leaving
Woodside Energy Group after previously
working at ExxonMobil for two decades.
She's the first female CEO for any big
oil company and replaces Murray
Auchincloss
>> [music]
>> who served in the role for just two
years. That's your Bloomberg brief,
Lisa. Thank you so much, Yahaira. Up
next, President Trump's [music] economy.
We're bringing our economy back from the
brink of ruin. Wages are rising much
faster than inflation. There are more
people working today than at any time in
American history. Henrietta Treyz of
Veda Partners joins us next as we look
to [music] that speech. What could
potentially get fulfilled in the
increasing slate of promises? This is
Bloomberg Surveillance.
>> [music]
[music]
>> This is supposed to be a happy time of
month where all stocks gain and
everybody feels good as they go off to
vacation. We're not seeing that. We've
had four straight days of losses. The
losses are mounting for [music] the
month, almost down to a decline of 3%
for the Nasdaq this morning. We're going
to try again to turn that around. Up
about a half a percent on S&P futures.
Euro dollar cross
>> [music]
>> is seeing a bit of dollar strength
coming back into play, but still around
that 117 level and yields in about two
basis points with the 10-year at 4.13%.
Take a look at Micron shares trading in
[music] the pre-market. This idea of how
much guidance can make a different kind
of picture for different [music] tech
giants. Broadcom, Oracle, the shares
fell after their earnings. Micron shares
up 11.3% after this comment from a
senior executive. This is the most
significant disconnect, Danny, between
demand and supply in terms of magnitude
as well as time horizon that we've
experienced [music]
in my 25 years in the industry.
>> So, all those people in that Deutsche
Bank survey that were worried about AI
being overhyped as the biggest risk for
2026, [music]
here's evidence that it's not, that
there is so much demand that there is
shortage. An interesting turn to this, I
think the Wall Street Journal laid it
out this morning, that, you know, we
talk about the competition for energy
assets. This is competition for memory
chips. These are also things that go in
smartphones and PCs. The threat could be
that because all of that is getting
routed to AI data spend, what if [music]
consumers have to pay more for PCs or
smartphones just because of the prices
that Micron can now command? [music]
>> Yeah, they're different bubbles and
they're different ones inflating at
different times and maybe, you need to
pay attention to which one is the most
pernicious. Under surveillance this
morning, the focus turns very much to
Washington, D.C. President [music]
Trump's economy.
We're bringing our economy back from the
brink of ruin. Wages are rising much
faster [music] than inflation. There are
more people working today than at any
time in American history. 1 million
450,000
military service members will receive a
special, we call, warrior dividend
before Christmas. I'm also taking on the
gigantic health insurance companies. I
will announce some of the most
aggressive housing reform plans in
American history. Here's the latest,
President Trump defending his economic
record as he looks to reassure Americans
about the rising cost of living. Recent
polls showing his approval rating at
slipping near the lowest level of his
second term. Bloomberg's Taylor Kendall
joins us now. Tyler, what did we learn
yesterday and how much can some of these
proposals come to fruition in the near
term?
Yeah, Haley, good morning. Well, perhaps
we learned that the White House has
really been trying to go on defense when
it comes to the issue of affordability
and this does come at a pretty critical
time considering that we're about to
head in to the midterms last year. Now,
as you heard, we heard pretty consistent
messaging from the president last night,
including that Americans should be
feeling better about the economy. Yet,
at the same time, it also appeared that
he was seeking to reassure that the full
impacts of his economic policies haven't
really kicked in yet, right? We heard
him say that the US is poised for an
economic boom. He also said that the
benefits from the one big beautiful bill
haven't fully been baked in, that we'll
see that next year. And he also, of
course, pointed to a new Fed chair he
says will lower rates. Now, one of the
biggest new policies announced was that
warrior dividend check you heard the
president talk about there that he says
will be coming in a matter of weeks and
is funded through tariff revenue. The
thing is, we didn't really get a lot of
other new policy proposals from this
White House last night. It really was
recounting a lot of what we've seen from
this past year. So, it's going to be
something to really watch closely,
including what could be rolled out. The
president did preview that we'll get
aggressive of housing reforms in his
words. That's important because on the
campaign trail he did campaign pretty
heavily on the idea of deregulation and
there is reporting that we could see
some enhanced housing entitlements for
US service members. Lisa, at this point
we were expecting that we could get more
when it comes to health care, of course,
the issue that's been dominating the
conversation here in Washington.
President Trump did outline his
opposition to extending the Affordable
Care Act premium tax subsidies saying
that this would be a way to lessen the
money going to insurance companies, but
he didn't ultimately endorse any of the
plans that are brewing on Capitol Hill.
Tyler Kendall, thank you so much, as
always, for that. Neela Richardson with
us for the hour. Neela, what did you
make of some of these proposals given
the fact that there is a focus on
supporting the labor market, but it's
unclear how quickly some of this could
really come into play? Yeah, it it's
interesting whether or not these, uh,
proposals come through the consumer or
come through business because they have
very different effects. Um, some of them
are quite transitory. If you think about
a paycheck, it maybe it goes to savings,
maybe it goes to a down payment. But
when you think about like the AI tech
workforce, I mean, investing in skills
and technology for people who can create
this AI infrastructure
and echo chamber that we need to produce
productivity is really, really
important. So, I think there is a
a whole spectrum. Some of them are
really important for the labor market
and the future of AI.
Some of them could be gone in a moment.
Which raises a question, how much is
this throwing spaghetti at the wall and
how much is this truly laying out a
potential plan from the president?
Joining us now, Henrietta Treyz,
director of economic policy research at
Veda Partners. Henrietta, what was your
take from the announcement, the speech
last decorations. 90% of Americans,
according to the latest Fox poll,
believe that inflation is the biggest
problem facing them. And what's a little
bit off-putting is that the president
touted a lot of data sets that just are
not resonating with American voters or
factually accurate. So, anybody who's
turned on the news this year has seen AI
and data centers driving electricity
prices up 13% for residential
electricity prices nationwide on
average. You know, if you tell me that
the cost of drugs is dropping by four,
five, 600%, which is what the president
said last night, that means you're
paying me to take drugs and you don't
have to be that good at math to know
that that's not how drugs work. And
finally, I would say the $18 trillion
investment that he touted from the trade
wars that he's launched and the deals
that he's reached is outrageous. I mean,
this is like China's entire GDP. So, you
need to put some things in context that
American voters can actually take with
them to the grocery store and that's not
what we got last night. Henrietta, just
that point, I mentioned this before that
Scotland Acorn of Cato Institute was
talking about the fact that this is the
10th thing that Trump has promised to
fund
with tariffs. I'm going to be honest,
ChatGPT helped me with this list, but I
was just looking at some of the things
that were promised. The military checks,
tariff dividend, farm aid and targeted
bailouts, child care, social programs,
tax cuts or elimination of income tax,
foreign or industrial subsidy funds.
Henrietta, I am I know a lot of those
are a wish list to Lisa's point versus
actual policy, but what happens if he
does try to fund some of these with the
tariff income? Is that even possible
with the amount of money coming in?
I mean, first of find me the votes. If
you can find me 51 votes in the United
States Senate for a $450 billion $2,000
check to the American public, I would
love to see it. I can't count you the
votes. I can't get you a reconciliation
bill. I can't even get you a budget for
fiscal year 2026. So, the idea of even
getting these things through is
not not realistic. And then the bond
market, of course, is counting on this
what CBO estimates is $3 trillion in
revenue brought in by these tariffs over
a decade and we've already spent it.
We've more than spent it. It's only been
$89 billion brought in by the IUPA
tariffs going back to October. So, I
mean, the money's just not there and the
votes aren't there, either. Henrietta,
it's a great point. I also want to get
back to one of the other things you just
mentioned, too, this idea of the
consumer feeling also the affordability
pain of what's happening with their
electricity prices. We saw the Blue Owl
and Oracle deal. Part of the reason it
crumpled was because of the politics in
Michigan of lawmakers pushing back
against tax subsidies. Earlier in the
week, we also heard from Bernie Sanders
saying that there needs to be a
moratorium on building on data centers
partially because of what you're
describing with the prices.
Is it likely as affordability becomes a
bigger issue that lawmakers will really
start to push back against some of the
data center construction and spending
that is happening in America?
Yeah, you can see it all over the place
in terms of physical pushback. AOC had
some tweets about it yesterday, I saw.
It's definitely a popular talking point.
There's not going to be any legislation
to prevent it, so this would have to be
active boots on the ground district-led,
you know, sort of protests against the
construction of new data centers. And
they're going to have to conflict that
with the, you know, job creation, which
in many of these cases is the only job
creation that you're seeing in, say, the
manufacturing sector. So, it's a it's a
pretty heavy lift to get something done
legislatively and then certainly um to
have the protest be maintained in order
to actually effectuate those policies or
stoppages. Henrietta Trey, S Vita
Partners, thank you so much for being
with us. There is this disconnect right
now and I think a lot of people have
highlighted it. There's a disconnect
between how people are feeling and what
some of the aggregate numbers are
showing. And Neil, I would ask you, how
do you reconcile that? The idea that
we're not seeing the labor market fall
off a cliff, but according to sentiment
surveys, some people feel like this is
the worst labor market that they've seen
in their career. You know, anecdotal
evidence is powerful, especially on Main
Street. And when you have kids coming
home from college and they can't get
jobs and they're living with you, that
is the only anecdotal
>> [laughter]
>> anecdotal evidence that you need that
the labor market isn't functioning in
the same way that it used to. And just
getting back to data centers, enormously
important. There's going to be a lot of
job creation in building the data
center, but the data center is not a
factory.
Once it's built, it doesn't produce
ongoing labor support for local
communities and there is a risk that it
increases electricity prices. So, that
kind of investment is great in the in
like the 3 to 5-year term, but is it
going to fuel an economy, a local
economy over the next 20 years? That's
the kind of job creation that we're
looking for. You can see the pain with
something like in Virginia, Glenn
Youngkin, a governor who's come on this
program a lot, has touted the huge
build-out that's been going on in that
state. I think that's a great point.
What happens when the build-out is done
and it's not continuing to fuel jobs,
it's just fueling electricity [music]
prices?
>> Yeah, with the some, you know, $500
billion lease payments that some of
these companies have promised to pay.
[music] We'll be talking about the labor
market, we're talking about central bank
policy and government lawmakers respond
to this coming up. Deirdre with your
morning movers, Mike and jumping on an
upbeat forecast as we count ahead to a
number of rate decisions. This is
Bloomberg [music] Surveillance.
Seeing a lift [music] of futures trying
this again one more time up about a half
a percent on S&P futures earlier this
morning [music] keeping those gains. A
bigger gain on the Nasdaq after
significant underperformance so far in
December. Now up 8/10 of a percent
largely on Micron really doing the heavy
lifting. Russell 2000 [music]
lagging behind with some real questions
around the labor market up 3/10 of a
percent. If you take a look at the bond
space, [music] 2s, 10s and 30s a bid
into bonds after a kind of motley
session led by the front end of the
yield curve. of the yield curve is
pressing down [music] some of the lows
that we've seen this year 3.46% down two
basis points on renewed expectations the
Fed will [music] cut rates. Is this
because of the job owning of the
president? Do you think so? Do you think
that he says, "Well, I want a next Fed
chair, it's going to lower rates." Does
that actually matter in any [music] way?
Not right now.
>> [laughter]
>> But it could. Coming up. Meanwhile, what
you'd see in the 30-year space is just
now a basis point [music] decline
4.802%.
Honestly, this is going to be a really
interesting [music] end of the week
given that we have not gotten inflation
data coming out since September. We also
get initial jobless claims 3 hours away
from the cash open here. Are you morning
movers with Deirdre on and Deirdre? Hi
Lisa. Micron is the golden child this
morning in a market still [music]
nervous around AI. Shares are popping
nearly 12% in the premarket after the
company blew past estimates saying that
demand is far outstripping [music]
supply giving them major pricing power
and analysts say that memory [music]
chip price increases are unlikely to
abate in the near term. Meanwhile,
taking a look at Lululemon [music]
shares also popping 6.8% in the
premarket on hopes that Elliott
Management
>> [music]
>> can help spark a turnaround. That's
because it built a stake of more than $1
billion in the struggling [music]
retailer and we're reporting that it is
set to be it is set to be working with
Jane Nielsen a former [music] executive
over at Ralph Lauren to try and spark
this turnaround and she is viewed as a
potential CEO candidate. And we end on
Instacart. Those shares are falling 6.6%
[music]
in the premarket on a reporter on a
Reuters report that the FTC is
investigating its AI pricing [music]
tool. The agency is looking at claims
that customers may be paying more on the
app than in store, something that
Instacart [music] disputes saying that
retailers are the ones that set the
prices, but it's no surprise that the
FTC [music] is going after these claims
especially after President Trump's
speech last night on affordability.
Lisa. Thank you so much, Deirdre. On our
radar this morning, [music] President
Donald Trump pledging 1776
warrior dividend. That is $1,776
of a dividend for troops this Christmas
alongside new plans for housing reforms.
This coming as the president faces
mounting pressure about his economic
agenda. Some questions remain, Danny.
About the feasibility of this as well as
the pay fors that really come into play.
>> Right. Henrietta Trey saying earlier,
"Find me the votes for this and then
I'll have a thought on it." But the pay
fors, he continues to promise different
legislation, different payouts from this
government via tariff revenue. If he is
able to get the votes, what does this
bond market do? What does this bond
market do that's been counting on the
deficit getting eaten away from the
tariff revenue coming in at a time when
the Fed's also cutting and at a time
where there is stimulus coming in? It is
dual stimulus. How does that occur and
how does the bond market react to it?
And if we take that thought and we
translate it all the way to Main Street,
which is where I I spend a lot of time,
these issues on housing and
affordability are not new,
and in an environment where we have
higher than normal and higher than
desired inflation. So, that's why we're
keep circling back to housing because
it's housing on top of eggs, on top of
everything else that we're spending our
money on. And this structural difference
in housing over the last 10 years has
been the deal maker in terms of wealth
creation for the middle middle class.
So, the question is, find me the votes,
find me the housing stock and you'll get
the votes.
>> Yeah, which raises the question about
how quickly you can actually turn that
around given the backdrop and given some
of the structural under supply. When it
comes to some of these payments, though,
how much is that going to be sustainable
inflation? I mean, this is sort of one
of the key questions. We're talking
about other types of dividend payments,
the the $2,000 dividend checks that
people also are going to be getting. I
mean, is this inflationary akin to the
Biden checks that a lot of people are
saying is partly responsible for the
real elevation in inflation
post-pandemic? Well, I I'm a little bit
jaded because I believe an announcement
is not necessarily a policy until it's
executed. I learned that the hard way.
But we'll see. We'll see the effect of
how it lands. You know, there were parts
of that stimulus package that actually
helped working families quite a bit. The
child care tax credit, for example, was
a big boom to working families. How it
gets distributed is an important. I'm
not going to dismiss it out of hand, but
there is a risk that it does lead to a
bunch of spending and not saving, which
could be inflationary. Something to keep
a close eye on. In the meantime, one one
stock is getting a little bit of
inflation, I guess, in a good way.
Micron shares jumping after topping
first quarter expectations and posting
better than expected revenue guidance.
The company sees second quarter earnings
to be nearly 80% higher than consensus
estimates. Let's just repeat that.
Nearly 80% higher than consensus
estimates fueled by relentless AI demand
for its data center memory chips. Those
shares up almost 12% after rising more
than 160% so far this year. I mean, it
just highlights how yes, there are
doubts about artificial intelligence,
but there's such a robust demand picture
that there still are pretty big gains to
be had. There's so much demand, which
means that the picks and shovels keep
doing really well. But for those that
are using it, there's still questions to
just how much revenue can come through.
So, it's this narrative of you need to
pick your winners. It is not if it is a
bubble, it's not everything moving in
concert higher together. And that's why
narratives have become so powerful for
this time around for what's happening in
tech. Maybe the previous one you could
kind of say, okay, websites are cool.
Anyone can build one. We kind of get
that. For this, it's this complicated
mess of who benefits. What type of chip
is doing well? What is the cash burn?
How does this technology actually work?
The complicated nature of it means that
you get this narrative whiplash, which
is such a fascinating setup into 2026
with so many hopes and dreams pinned on
AI revolution.
>> Yeah, hopes, dreams, and fears. And I
think that right now the fears have
really taken center stage when it comes
to whether valuations are too high,
whether we're paying too much, and how
much is this going to steal from the
labor market. And this is one thing that
people keep talking about. How much is
the Fed keeping rates lower than they
otherwise would out of fear that there
is going to be a structural imbalance
that's going to leave a lot of people
out of work. I mean, are we seeing that
in the evidence that that's actually
coming to fruition? You know, there's
some evidence at the at the margin that
there is going to be a transition in the
workforce, but I don't think AI is a
field of dreams. I actually think it's a
dream deferred. And that means that they
you have to create that AI
infrastructure first before you see the
outcomes in the productivity and the
opportunity. And we are in a transition
period. So, the question is, in my mind,
will the equity markets be patient to
allow for that ecosystem to be built?
And will the work employers be patient
to allow employees to adapt to the
skills that they need for the future?
This is a game of wait and see and wait
and build. And I'm not sure that we have
the patience for that right now.
>> Certainly, the financing markets have
had some wobbles when it comes to
patience, and then I think it's a big
reason for why we have seen a recent
skepticism. This is only amplified by
cases of fraud. US pros- prosecutors
charging the Tricolor Holdings founder,
Daniel Chu, with defrauding investors
through a massive loan collateral
scheme. Chu faces multiple felony counts
and at least 10 years of prison
convicted. And I have to say, read the
details of this story. With Excel
spreadsheets and a junior investment
analyst saying, wait a second, this
doesn't add up, leading to the
unraveling of this entire scheme.
>> that junior analyst is no longer junior,
that he got a nice promotion and a pay
raise because look at what he wrought on
markets. It is incredible and I think so
many people want to say, look, this is
just idiosyncratic. It was a fraud. It
can't be extended. But the fact that you
had so many eyes and and so many
well-respected borrowers in this company
and no one caught it except a junior
analyst, I think says something. I was
picking speaking to Victor Cosgrove,
SVP, earlier uh last week, who basically
said, we're looking at 15 companies
right now that are facing the kind of of
issues in their over-leveraged in debt
that Tricolor was facing. They're not
fraud. It's just an over-leveraged
balance sheet and the lack of people to
really appreciate the issue that that
presents until it's too late. That
doesn't sound idiosyncratic to me. It
sounds like late cycle dynamics.
>> of people are concerned that that is the
case. In the meantime, people also
focused on the geopolitics of the
moment. EU leaders are set to meet today
facing a key decision on using frozen
Russian assets to fund Ukraine's defense
efforts in the war. Bloomberg's Oliver
Cook joins us now from Brussels. Ollie,
thank you so much for being with us. We
have seen a pop in optimism that there
would be some resolution to this
conflict before, let's say, March. That
has waned over the past couple of hours.
What is going on over there in Brussels?
Yeah, that's the big question, Lisa. And
I think that going into this meeting,
this makes it a very sort of exciting
leaders meeting here in Brussels. And
I'd say probably one of the most
consequential in the last several years
because before the leaders, and I have
to say, going into this meeting, I spoke
to the high representative, Kaja Kallas,
the highest diplomat here of the
European Union. I just listened to a
number of European leaders walking in um
and speaking to reporters, basically all
weighing in on how they feel about
seizing these Russian assets and
potentially monetizing them. We do not
have consensus going into this meeting.
We really do not know when this meeting
will end. We do not know if they will
come to a resolution on the frozen
Russian assets. We only know that the
Council President, Antonio Costa, says
that he's going to basically lock the
doors and say that these leaders cannot
leave the room until they figure out a
way to finance Ukraine going forward.
What they're trying to do is get over
the line a 90 billion euro loan that
accounts for two-thirds of the funding
funding for Ukraine militarily and the
rest of their budget for the next 2
years in order to keep them on their
feet in this battle against the
Russians. All the while that there's
trade negotiations, there's peace
negotiations going on with the United
States in the background, but we do not
have a consensus. The German Chancellor,
Friedrich Merz, says there's basically
no plan B. The only other option for
funding Ukraine other than seizing these
Russian assets is joint debt. And that
probably is the only thing in Europe
that is more contentious than actually
seizing these Russian assets and
monetizing them. There's also this
question of how much they're going to
crack down on some of the sanctions on
Russian assets given the fact that
energy price is very much in the focus
as we do get deeper into winter. How
much is there a message for European
allies? This is something that a lot of
strategists are talking about from what
the United States is doing with
Venezuela and actually putting some sort
of blockade around sanctioned oil
tankers.
Well, I think it's very interesting that
how far the United States is going on
this. We should say that we've had
reporting over the last couple of days
that the United States is actually
considering further sanctions on Russian
oil vessels, oil tankers, as well as
Russian energy traders. So, it's a lever
that the European that the Americans are
looking to pull potentially. Of course,
that they're not going quite as far as
Lindsey Graham would like them to go.
And we had that bipartisan support for
that bill in the United States that
would impose secondary sanctions on
everybody that's buying crude oil and
natural gas from the Russians. Donald
Trump has not yet shown the appetite for
that, but it does show a little bit that
the United States is willing to put a
little bit of pressure there on the
Russians. For the Europeans, really
their last chip to play is on these
Russian assets. They've really kind of
maxed out their sanction packages so
far. So, really, of course, energy
prices are going to be sort of front and
center, but the real question is, are
the Americans going to ramp up pressure
on the Russians? So far, they've not had
the appetite to do it beyond the
sanctions they put on Lukoil and
Rosneft, which just kicked in a couple
of weeks ago, which we should say are
fairly significant. Ollie Cook, thank
you so much for that reporting and great
interview earlier this morning. A real
question here about how much energy
prices are really underpinning so much
of geopolitics, right? Have lower energy
prices emboldened on some level this
president, other places to potentially
crack down a little bit more on some of
these these increasing issues.
>> It's such an important undertone to it
all because it's the contrast of what
was happening in the Biden
administration. When the Biden
administration lightened up on some of
the sanctions on Venezuela and took a
more pragmatic approach saying, you can
get some more of your oils of barrel of
oils on the market if you do certain
things. What was the difference that
time? It was Ukraine and Russia. It was
oil prices moving higher and
administration that felt like they had
to do something to keep oil prices
lower. And oil prices are important for
the trajectory of inflation, right? And
so, all of these global events, even
though they're complicated and they feel
a world away, they hit home eventually.
And they are the deal maker in terms of
the US economy going into the next year.
Yeah, we heard about that $1.99 a
gallon, and that was one thing that was
driving prices lower. Right now, let's
get you an update on stories elsewhere.
Here is your Bloomberg Brief with
Yahaira Oned. Yahaira. Hi, Lisa. The US
government's acknowledging liability for
the deadly [music] mid-air collision
between an Army helicopter and an
American Airlines jetliner. Court
documents state that the FAA violated
procedures and that the Army helicopter
pilots failed to maintain [music]
vigilance. 67 people were killed in the
crash on January 29th.
Meanwhile, Nick Reiner made his first
court appearance yesterday in Los
Angeles. He faces two counts [music] of
first-degree murder in the killing of
his parents, actor director Rob Reiner
and his wife, Michelle Singer Reiner.
Nick Reiner did not enter a plea. His
arraignment [music] was postponed until
January 7th at his attorney's request.
He is being held without bail.
And authorities allege a more than $1
billion fraud by Tricolor founder,
Daniel Chu, was exposed due to an Excel
spreadsheet [music] error. One of Chu's
top lieutenants failed to reduce the
numbers in a column listing the loans'
outstanding balances, leaving a glaring
mismatch. The discrepancy [music] was
flagged by a junior analyst and set off
the company's spiral into bankruptcy.
That's your Bloomberg Brief, Lisa.
[music] Thank you so much, Yahaira. More
on that story later. It really is just
amazing. Read all the details. I mean,
honestly, the idea that that kind of
Excel spreadsheet issue could leave a
big banks with million-dollar lawsuits
highlights just [music] what potentially
could be at stake.
>> also highlights that we can't kill
Excel. For all of the AI glory that's
promised out there, Excel still
That's my takeaway. We can't get rid
[laughter] of it.
>> we can't kill grunt work. Some things
you you have to go line by line through
every single row in order to find the
>> [laughter]
>> the hidden
hidden treasure there. Exactly. Grunt
work and Excel spreadsheets. Up next,
all eyes on CPI. [music]
I'm more focused on CPI because of what
it will tell us as to where we're going
next. But the story with inflation is
really an uncomfortable one. Not because
it's too high or too low, but because
it's kind of stuck in that middle. More
[music] on the state of the economy with
Nela Richardson coming up next. You're
watching watching Bloomberg
Surveillance.
>> [music]
[music]
>> We're trying to turn the page on 2025 in
a positive way. It hasn't worked so far
in December. Right now, we're trying to
turn that around up about a half a
percent on [music] S&P futures, up even
more on the Nasdaq as a result of what
we saw from Micron. Better than
expected, absolutely enormous
forward-looking growth. We are seeing
yields dip just a bit about three basis
points decline for 10 years uh 10-year
yields 4.13% [music]
ahead of the first inflation reading,
the first CPI report since September. We
will not be getting
>> [music]
>> a comp with October. Nonetheless, it
will be some sort of look into what we
might be getting come just later [music]
this year from the Federal Reserve into
next year. When you take a look at these
shares in pre-market trading, here is
where the lift is coming from and it has
to do with one activist investor. BP
shares a little bit lower down is about
7/10 of a percent on an executive
management change, concerns about some
sort of crossover there. But Lululemon
shares up 6.7%. Both of these very much
in the news due to Elliott Management
and their activist stake in trying to
enact change. It's just as fascinating
to see how this is all coming to roost
at the [music] end of the year.
>> It is. I mean, two completely different
businesses, but the common theme is a
strategic direction change that Elliott
feels needs to happen with a new CEO at
the helm. For BP, it's about completely
getting rid of renewables and focusing
in on a new CEO, who by the way is the
first outsider CEO ever for BP, who
comes from a very fossil fuel heavy
industry. For Lululemon, it's just the
fact that this brand has really been
struggling with competition and it's a
it's a consumer that we've been speaking
about that's more choosy. So, it's not
enough just to have apparently a C-suite
that's committed to a strategic change.
Elliott is saying, "Need someone at the
top and we have the ability to make that
happen."
>> Yeah, go from spandex to something
looser. Compete with Vuori. I mean,
that's essentially what people are
saying with Lulu. They're not actually
saying that. Meanwhile, we're looking
out forward to the economic data we get
later this morning. Under surveillance
this morning, all eyes on CPI.
I'm more focused on CPI because of what
it will tell us as to where we're going
next. But the story with inflation is
really an uncomfortable one. Not because
it's too high or too low, but because
it's kind of stuck in that middle. What
do we do with that? Well, it depends how
the Federal Reserve responds to it and
how do consumers respond to it? Well, it
depends where that inflation is. The
composition of inflation, I think, is
going to become even more important on a
go forward. Here's the latest. Traders
counting down to November CPI data due
in less than 2 hours for the first read
on inflation since September as the Fed
weighs both sides of its dual mandate.
Neela Richardson of ADP still with us.
The expectation is for a 3.1% increase
in the headline year-over-year, 3%
increase in core, still above that 2%
level. How clean is this read given some
of the government shutdown and
collection issues?
>> It's not as clean as we'd like. Skipping
over October is a major miss. We could
do that in the labor market. People kind
of skip past that 100,000 plus loss in
jobs market because they knew there was
a driver. It was government layoffs. We
can't easily skip past, even though
we're going to be forced to, the October
data to see that momentum going into the
end of the year. That's such an
important piece of information and, you
know, we also know that there are gaps
in in the CPI data in terms of a few
cities that will be missing or metro
areas. And so, putting it together and
and having that view is really
important. I just wish it was as
complete a mosaic as we're used to
seeing.
>> I'm getting ready for the conspiracy
theories that are going to inevitably
emerge after this report, whether it's
too high or too low. I got a number of
messages yesterday about owner's
equivalent rent and how this is the
third of the CPI print and we don't have
a sense of how they're calculating it. I
mean, how much will hinge on specific
idiosyncratic, if you will, Excel
spreadsheets that people are going
through and determining exactly how this
is measured. I guess this is the the day
of Excel. I
>> [laughter]
>> Because the drivers are important.
Whether inflation, if we see it or if we
don't see it, is it coming from the
housing market? Because that's a very
different set of
factors and drivers and if it's coming
from energy prices or the goods sector.
We thought the inflation in the goods
sector was over. If it starts to rise
again, if it goes past blows past
services into goods, that's a whole
different conversation for the Fed, for
policy makers. So, those drivers, that
momentum really critical to
understanding the complete story.
>> Well, let's also go back to some of what
we've heard from companies of General
Mills saying that they're cutting
prices. When it comes to homebuilders,
Lennar is saying that they're also
having to cut prices and offer
incentives in order to get people to
actually build homes and buy homes. How
much are corporates playing into
inflation and maybe lessening inflation
right now? You know, the traffic in the
homebuilder space is really interesting
to watch because there is all this
tailwind of demographic demand, but is
the house at the right price? And right
now, there is a sense that companies are
absorbing some of those price increases,
not passing it on to the consumer
because things are still uncertain,
tariff policy is still being set. We
don't have a strong read on the consumer
right now. And so, let's absorb it until
we know that we don't have this fickle
consumer who will go away from us
because we increase the price. So, I see
that in 2025. I'm not sure companies can
continue to do that in 2026. And even
though they're absorbing higher prices,
they are making changes and we're seeing
that in the labor market. They are not
hiring at the same volume at this time
of the year as we're used to seeing.
>> Can I ask cuz a lot of these companies
are saying it's because of AI. We're
rethinking our workforce, we're using
more technology, we're being more
productive. Sorry, we're announcing
these layoffs right before Christmas,
but AI made us do that. You know, how
much of that is just an excuse at this
point?
>> I think it is a factor, but I think that
these layoffs, these transitions would
be happening anyway in many sectors. And
if you look at where the sectors are of
growth, it's in healthcare. Yes, many
healthcare jobs are not AI exposed. That
is the case. But there are other sectors
like other services like dog walking
services and dry cleaning services and
leisure and hospitality and restaurants
that are still lackluster. So, it's not
a complete AI is a replacement right
now. In fact, there's a sense that AI
may augment certain sectors and you're
seeing that as well. So, it's just a
factor. I wouldn't call it an excuse.
Maybe it's a factor, but it's not the
whole reason. Neela Richardson of ADP,
thank you so much for being with us this
morning. Always wonderful to get your
thoughts, especially on a day that is so
important economically. Thanks. Thanks
for having me. So, meanwhile, we are
getting a number of rate decisions
coming up. We also are going to be
getting some earnings. We're getting
Nike after the bell. We did just get
CarMax earnings. What I find interesting
here is that they did beat expectations,
but their comp stores used unit sales
actually declined more than expected.
You did see a decline overall
year-over-year.
I'm just wondering, are we setting our
expectations low and are we still seeing
misses on the margins that indicate
really a pushback to higher prices and,
frankly, to some of these concerns that
we see in the labor market?
>> Maybe it's finally some of these
negative sentiment surveys actually
showing up because that's been so much
of the picture. You were talking about
this, this idea that the sentiment
surveys have been really poor, but
people are still spending. It feels like
yes, they're still spending, but what
they're spending on has changed. Things
like CarMax, like vehicles, the big
expensive ticket items, there seems to
be some serious pushback. So, maybe
finally, maybe not on the headline
level, but in the individual level, some
of that anxiety is coming true. Yeah,
the nuance, the details is what we're
going to be parsing through as we get
the data to try to understand the
drivers, just where the sentiment is
coming into play. Coming up next, a Bank
of England rate decision. Bloomberg's
Lizzie Burden breaks it down. [music]
Plus, Thomas Kennedy of JP Morgan Asset
Management joins us. Erica Ngeri of UBS
and Adrian Ye of Barclays as we await
those earnings from Nike after the bell.
And of course, the marquee event will be
CPI as well as jobless claims for the
past week. What we get will determine
[music]
the move maybe into next year. Nasdaq
futures higher, 8/10 of a percent gain
on the heels of Micron injecting some
optimism into what has otherwise been a
pessimistic month so far for the AI
trade. From New York City, this [music]
is Bloomberg Surveillance.
>> [music]
[music]
>> The data we're most focused on, as
always, is the earnings. The earnings
backdrop for the S&P 500 looks
incredibly strong. I do think, though,
that there are real questions about the
cost of doing AI. This huge run in
margin expansion could come to an end.
>> The reality is, in 2026, AI needs to
continue its [music] march forward. We
need the fundamental strength that does
exist to remain there.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
[music] Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz,
and Anne Marie Hordern.
Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance trying to inject optimism
into an otherwise pessimistic December
[music] for stocks with futures higher
now after four days of losses. The Bank
of England rate decision coming out
right now. They did cut rates to the
lowest going back to 2023. ECB up next,
then it's on to US economic data with
the first [music] CPI report since
September. Danny Burger alongside me and
right now what we are seeing is rate
cutting continuing, maybe not here in
the United States for the very second,
but over in England, they got the green
light.
>> And unlike the rate cuts here, zero
people voted to increase [music] the the
rate, five forward to lower the bank
rate. So, you did have that divide
there. But what happens if it's an ECB
that pauses and you get more of a
pushback and Isabel Schnabel talking
about hiking rates next year? The BOJ
maybe also tightening policy. What
happens to the UK and US as they try to
do the opposite if bond yields globally
move higher off the back of that?
>> did see a 5-4 vote. So, if the division
in the United States was shocking, well,
it's just as divided elsewhere. I'm so
pleased [music] to say that Tom Kennedy,
the head of real estate investment
strategy at JP Morgan Asset Management
is joining us for the hour. Tom, really
I wonder how much this flies put some
some some cold water on this idea that
the rate cutting cycle globally is over.
Is it really or are people still going
to be running their economies hot in a
very competitive world? When the Central
Bank of the United States is still on
the verge of cutting rates rather than a
hold or cutting, it's hard to say we're
at the end of the cutting cycle, right?
This is the the global reserve currency,
but we [music] are seeing
differentiation across economies, which
is something we're really not used to,
guys. We haven't seen this for the last
decade or so very synchronized
movements, but I think when you look
across the world and take the big big
picture step is yield curves are
normalizing. We are 5 years afterwards
really normalizing out of this COVID
[music] economy, at least that's what I
think interest rates are telling us.
Yeah, I'm not sure if the English
economy is normalizing or if this is
what they want to be seeing this sort of
dual mandate becoming very much
attention. Tom Kennedy of JP Morgan
Asset Management is going to be sticking
with us for the hour. We do want to get
more details from that Bank of England
rate decision. Let's head over now to
Bloomberg's Lizzie Burden in London.
Lizzie, a split decision, although the
consensus was to cut rates as widely as
expected.
Yeah, it looks like that weaker than
expected UK CPI print that we got
yesterday didn't actually make this more
dovish a cut as perhaps was expected. I
was speaking to Barnaby of UBS this
morning. He had thought that maybe it
would be a 9-0 vote split for a cut. It
is exactly what was expected before the
CPI print 5-4. You've got the governor
as the deciding vote Andrew Bailey going
for a cut this time rather than a hold
and you're seeing the market reacting to
this. So, you've got yields higher on
the two-year gilt yield
3.73 up three basis points, the 10-year
up a basis point at 4.48.
And so, reacting to perhaps the fact
that they haven't been more dovish in
their reaction to that inflation
reading. Now, in terms of the guidance,
there was no expected change here. They
still say that the path ahead is going
to be one of gradual easing. They
haven't dropped that. It would have been
quite confusing actually if they had
given that they don't have a press
conference today. And in terms of the
pound reaction, you're looking at it
really pretty much flat as a pancake
$1.33 at the moment. It had been down
against the dollar before this. So,
actually, if you want to call it
anything, perhaps this is a hawkish cut,
Lisa. And Lizzie, it does speak to the
challenge of the dual mandate that's
happening globally at the moment. How
does this set us up for an ECB decision
in just over an hour's time?
Well, the ECB is expected actually to
sit on its hands, do nothing at all, but
it's a difficult message for Christine
Lagarde to be communicating because
there we do actually have updated
forecasts and they're expected to show
inflation Danny under shooting the
target over [clears throat] the next few
years. She's got to balance messaging on
that with, if she wants to, pushing back
against Isabel Schnabel. We know that
she has come out with this hawkish
commentary in the past week about how
the next move from the ECB is going to
be a hike. The market strongly reacting
to that. Jens Eisenschmidt at Morgan
Stanley saying the repricing is the
equivalent to a 25 basis point hike. So,
if Lagarde doesn't rebut the Schnabel
argument, that's going to be saying
something. The euro very vulnerable
today. Lizzie Burden, thank you so much
for being with us. Tom, I'd love your
thoughts on this idea that right now
central banks globally are being forced
to grapple with the overhang of fiscal
deficits that are pretty pretty
significant at the same time that
they're dealing with sluggish growth. I
mean, how much does this create a more
compromised independence backdrop for
all of these central banks given these
sort of dual mandates coming into play?
I do think it creates a challenge mostly
for the market. For the for the central
banks, they need to show transparency
about how they weight these these these
two sides of their mandates. And the
Federal Reserve, I think, has been doing
a good job of, hey, we we understand
you're worried about inflation, but the
labor market is really what drives
inflation in the long run in this
country.
And as wages cool, we should expect core
inflation to come down. I think it's
just really about transparency, Lisa,
and giving us a full honest picture of
how they're waiting these risks.
It's not an easy challenge for them.
Which is why you're seeing such
conflicted responses and the idea of a
5-4 kind of vote here. Pooja Kumra,
European and UK rates senior strategy
with with with TD Securities joining us
now for more. Pooja, what's your take on
this given the fact they did cut rates
as widely expected, but what you did see
was that fissure increasingly on the
committee.
Yeah, no, exactly. The it's surprising
that the committee is still very divided
as seen from the vote as well as when it
comes to the guidance. They have not
given a clear path with respect to the
pace of cuts or we know that BOE is in
the upper end of the neutral, which is
basically 2 to 3.75,
but the guidance around how much below
they want to go towards the neutral is
really lacking and I think that has come
as a disappointment to markets after
yesterday's weak CPI print and that's
why you are seeing yields actually
selling off. Even on the budget side,
they consider it to add a point or two
on growth. On inflation, they are still
seeing medium-term inflation to increase
by 0.1 to 0.2. So, I think overall, the
messaging is very mixed. Even if you
look at Andrew Bailey's comments here,
they are looking at the downward trend
on labor market, but they still don't
want to overread into it. And same with
inflation, they don't want to overreact
into the numbers that we've seen last
time. So, overall, I would just say that
the mixed messaging is something that's
not changed. Markets were still worried
about the pace of easing by the BOE. You
know, markets were pricing around the
next cut around April and the the
current messaging does not really change
that situation. There's just no pace or
what type of momentum in terms of cuts
we'll see from BOE and it's not been
consistent as in the case of Fed or in
the in terms of ECB.
But, I think it's the data that will be
speaking and if you do see that
inflation and labor market easing, the
next cut should be by Q1 in our view.
And and and just to the point of the
division, Pooja, and the not clear
outlook, part of the statement was that
judgments on further easing will become
a closer call. How much room is there to
cut at this moment if the data stays
similar to how it is now, Pooja?
So, markets-wise again, there is not
much room within they're just looking
for another cut from the BOE and the
timing was around May and I don't think
that changes right now. To us again,
like we also think that BOE definitely
has room for one more cut. They will be
still in the restrictive stance. If you
see the neutral range for them is, as I
said, is around 2 to 3.75. So, they're
actually in the upper end of the
neutral. So, there is lot of room to
ease, but the evidence in terms of labor
market and inflation has been very slow
moving in UK and and that's why they
want to keep the easing path slower than
what should be the case. So, we and
markets are particularly looking for
just one more cut, but I think the risk
are for more cuts when it comes to UK.
Pooja Kumra of TD Securities, thank you
so much for being with us. Tom Kennedy
alongside us this morning and I am
wondering just zooming back as we await
the ECB rate decision and after this
rate cut, do we have a sense of just how
much more inflationary the current
moment is than pre-pandemic? Do we have
a sense of what room there is for
central banks globally to truly engage
in a cutting cycle? In most of the
developed world, I think you have to
look to the wage market to tell you what
underlying inflation trends look like.
In wages in America, we just got ECI
prints, which is the gold standard for
the Central Bank in the US. You're still
seeing wage growth about a half a point
percentage point growth higher than what
it was pre-COVID. So, that would tell
you that there is still more
inflationary pressure in the economy,
but to some degree that is
backward-looking. You need to look at
more data points and when you look at
the labor market, we got finally got the
jobs report and it looked okay, but on
the skew, similar to what Pooja is
saying, I think you're skewing towards a
little bit weaker than what the headline
numbers look like. And and there I'm
looking to breadth of job growth in
America. Year to date, most of the job
growth is just health care. I'm looking
to what's happening for young kids
coming out of college. The unemployment
rate for them is the highest it's ever
been relative to the overall
unemployment rate. And then just
turnover in the jolts market, there's
not a lot of turnover. So, I think if
you're a central bank, you say, "Ah,
things are look okay, but if we have to
do anything, we need to cut." And in the
developed world, that's for the most
part what's happening in kind of kind of
ex-Japan.
But, if you're going to be
forward-looking, don't you also have to
take into account that we're getting
cuts and and fiscal stimulus at the same
time? Not even from the US, you
mentioned it in the last hour, the fact
that Germany is going on a record debt
spending binge. Doesn't all of that mean
we could also potentially be cutting
into an upturn and dual inflation when
inflation is still not at target?
>> Yeah, Pooja hit it exactly right. The
where is the neutral rate? Where are we
across the developed world? I think most
of the central banks say they're still
above neutral. So, they can cut a little
bit and see what happens. And this is
the exact reason why, Danny, you look
out to '26, the big view big beautiful
bill's going to hit.
Best estimates from economists is that's
going to add about one percentage point
to GDP growth. Wow, that's that's a lot
of muscle coming in. And then you can
look at really as sentiment is turning,
what are your forward indicators that
you can trust? CEO confidence, small
business hiring intentions. So, I do
think you have to cut, kind of see what
happens. I think the BOE
um and the Fed are kind of in the same
exact spot with that. But, I look, if
you're going to
really count on the labor market, it's
telling you, if you're doing anything,
you're cutting. I think that's a really
important thing for the market is that
the probability of hikes is very, very
low in 26. Um
so, that that can give us confidence to
add duration and uh diversification
portfolios. Which is what you have been
seeing a lot of people saying, although
a little pushback recently, on the long
end of the yield curve. We'll get into
that in just a second. Right now, let's
get you an update on stories elsewhere.
Here is your Bloomberg Brief with
Yahaira Onn Yahaira Onn. Hi, Lisa. The
Trump administration announcing a
massive arms deal with Taiwan. It's
valued up to $11 billion and includes
missiles, drones, and more. China's
Foreign [music] Ministry attacked the
move saying it would violate diplomatic
agreements between China and the US and
undermine regional stability. [music]
Meanwhile, Medline shares soared more
than 40% in their market debut
yesterday, though they are pulling back
this morning. [music] The company raised
over $6 billion in this year's biggest
IPO. Medline, which manufactures [music]
and distributes medical supplies, has a
market value of about $55 billion based
on [music] the trading.
And moderate House Republicans have
joined with Democrats to force a vote in
January on expiring Obamacare [music]
subsidies. The rebellion comes after
Speaker Mike Johnson blocked a floor
vote on a plan to extend [music] the
subsidies with cost-saving changes. The
votes will be forced after a discharge
petition reached 218 [music] votes,
which is a majority of the house. That's
your Bloomberg Brief, Lisa. Thank you so
much, Yahaira. Up next, bringing the
economy back.
We're bringing our economy back from the
brink of ruin. Wages are rising much
faster than [music] inflation. There are
more people working today than at any
time in American history. Merry
Christmas. Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall
joins us next from New York. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Seeing a lift at two markets ahead of
the open after a soggy December. We have
seen losses for four straight trading
sessions. Today trying to snap it on the
heels of Micron. [music] Some optimism
coming from that. Futures up about half
a percent. Seeing a bit of euro weakness
ahead of the ECB rate decision. We did
see, of course, [music] from the Bank of
England a rate cut on the expectations
of slowing inflation. And in the United
States ahead of the CPI print, we do
have two basis points of a decline on
the 10-year with 4.14%
in focus. On the surveillance this
morning, bringing the economy [music]
back.
We're bringing our economy back from the
brink of ruin. Wages are rising much
faster than [music] inflation. There are
more people working today than at any
time in American history. 1 million
450,000
military service members will receive a
special, we call, warrior dividend
before Christmas. [music] I'm also
taking on the gigantic health insurance
companies. I will announce some of the
most aggressive housing reform plans in
American history. Here's the latest.
President Trump touting his economic
record as he looks to reassure Americans
pocketbook concerns. This as polls
showing his approval rating slipping
near the lowest level of his second
term. Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joining
us now. Tyler, this is rare for
President Trump. He rarely has given
primetime addresses. Last night, there
were pretty high expectations. What were
the underlying announcements that really
came to the fore?
Yeah, Hey, Lisa. Well, it's clear that
the White House has been trying to hone
its messaging when it comes to the
economy and affordability, which is part
of why President Trump utilized this
speech in primetime, as you're saying,
not typically expected from him since we
know that he prefers really the larger
crowds like we saw the other week in
Pennsylvania. Now, President Trump put a
few ideas out there, some new, some
repeated, some that would require
congressional approval, and that's a
really important theme to keep in mind
here because, of course, every seat in
the House of Representatives is up for
election next year in the midterms,
which could change the political
calculus of what ultimately ends up
getting passed and turned into law. Now,
the newest policy that the president
floated were was what you heard him
refer to as these warrior dividend
checks that are going to US service
members and he says will be funded
through tariff revenue. Now, he says the
checks are already in the mail. At the
moment, it is not totally clear the
legal authority that's been invoked,
though there is reporting this money was
already allocated and appropriated under
the one big beautiful bill. But, of
course, it is reminiscent of another
idea that he put out there again, which
is that we could see tariff refund
revenue checks more broadly for
Americans. But, we do know that that
would likely require congressional
approval in a whole new separate form of
legislation. Uh and I have to say, if
you go to Capitol Hill and talk to
Republicans about this, many of them
would prefer to see that money go
towards paying down our national debt.
The other bucket of proposals to look
out for in the new year, I would say,
was focused on President Trump saying
that we could see aggressive reforms
when it comes to housing. He was light
on specifics, though we do know that he
campaigned, of course, heavily on the
idea of deregulation in the industry. Uh
Lisa, I have to say that in the last few
weeks, of course, affordability has
really been front and center in the
conversation here in Washington. And
that has to do with healthcare. We were
expecting President Trump to touch on
the issue, though again, light on
specifics. He did outline his opposition
to those expiring Affordable Care Act
premium tax subsidies saying that he
would rather see money go towards
consumers instead of as subsidies to
insurance companies, but he didn't
support put his support behind any of
the legislation that's currently brewing
on Capitol Hill. Tyler Kendall, thank
you so much for being with us. Tom
Kennedy of JP Morgan Asset Management
still with us. And Tom, the descriptions
of the US economy are all over the
place. People sentiment certainly all
over the place. Economist interpretation
of the data all over the place. What's
your take on why now, ahead of CPI and
ahead of a holiday season, did we get
this kind of address given some of the
backdrop of polls that we see for this
president? So, as if you're around our
desk yesterday trying to figure out why
the announcement, why now.
Um I think we looked at the polling
numbers, too. Also think, to your point,
we're getting an inflation data print
for the first time in a in a couple
months. It's a curious timing. I we
don't really know. Um when we look to
CPI, we do feel that customers are
customers in America and our Chase
customers are feeling some pain. Uh JP
Morgan has the best data in the world on
the consumer.
And we bank over 50% of American
households. We have at least one
product. That gives us great insight.
What we see right now is a very divided
consumer in America. That K-shaped
economy that we talk about a lot.
Top 10% of income earners, which account
for about 50% of all consumption in
America,
are doing just fine. Their spending
growth is above the rate of inflation.
Uh and in this holiday season so far,
we've seen them spend on big-ticket
items.
The bottom 90% of income earners,
though, are spending their spending
growth is below the rate of inflation.
So, their real spending is negative.
Think that might be some of this
economic pain that that people talk
about a lot.
Um
That's a That's a really tough challenge
for monetary policy, for fiscal policy,
but um that could be the reason why he
was talking last night. Well, if you do
have a world, which we are in now, where
there's basically 0% jobs growth, 3.5%
wage growth, and a 3% inflation,
that doesn't leave a lot of room for
household spending. But, to your point,
the K-shaped means that the spending has
occurred. At what point does that stop?
And the K-shaped is no longer enough to
sustain the economy on a headline level?
>> Yeah, Danny, this is the This is what's
driving this K-shaped economy. Income
inequality goes on for a long time. Uh
you know, that stat, 50% of all
consumption happens with the top 10% of
income earners.
30 years ago, they accounted for just
35% of all consumption. So, income
inequality is happening.
But, I think what also supports this
K-shaped economy is that financial
conditions, real estate prices going
higher, uh stocks going higher, those
are mostly owned by the top 10% of
Americans. So, what makes it stop?
Well, we could see Main Street focus and
consumption at the bottom pick up. Or,
if we saw a crack in financial
conditions, maybe we would see the top
side come down. Um this is also what
makes what our jobs very hard. There are
two different experiences that are
happening. Um you know, you come back to
a central bank. What are they focused
on? The bottom side of the K. And you
come back to I think last night, the
president. He's very much focused on the
bottom side of the K. Um so, hopefully
that's what we get. The bottom side
comes up. Um so, I think there's reason
to think that will happen in 2026, too,
though. You were just kind of hinting
there also what that's done to markets.
And it's actually something that I was
speaking with Ken Griffin earlier this
week, too. A world in which bond yields
are moving higher because of that
pressure, inflation still sticky, and
yet equity markets that love the idea of
that this economy is going to be run
hot. There was a survey done by the
other side of the house at JP Morgan
basically saying that people were
ditching constructed portfolios like
60/40, that they were just putting
together their own equity portfolios,
and their hedge was gold, not bonds,
because of the split that we're seeing.
Are you seeing that among your clients,
too, that there's this real desire that
we don't want the hedge from bonds, but,
man oh man, equities are hot, and maybe
we find some diversification elsewhere?
I think you have to start with what most
Americans own. They own the S&P 500. Top
10 stocks in that in the S&P 500, eight
of them are tech companies, if you use
tech companies broadly. That's 35% of
the index. So, you start every
conversation with I know you own the S&P
500. You have a heavy concentration in
tech.
You could be a tech believer and still
say, I need to diversify.
Looking backwards, our job was just to
add bonds. It was just easy. Inverse
correlation was there.
And we've been saying it, JP Morgan's
been saying it for years now, that
inverse correlation is not real anymore.
Stocks and bonds positively correlate.
We need new diversifiers. Uh commercial
real estate stands out as one that
should diversify really well. It's
positive income and prices. It's the
only asset class where prices haven't
come back to where they were pre-COVID.
And then you can look at infrastructure,
hedge funds, gold. I do think it funny
how much we talk about gold and how
small it is in portfolios, but that's,
you know, an aside. I know that you do
focus on real estate and this is a big
central part of the president's agenda
and it's also a big question mark
because it used to be one of the main
stores of wealth for so many different
households. That's now obsolete for a
lot of incoming household creators who
don't have that capacity. How can you
get a more healthy market, a healthier
market without prices coming materially
lower, right? How can you have a
healthier market going forward that
doesn't include a good degree of pain
that forces some sort of capitulation in
the space? I think you have to start
with what is that epicenter of wealth
over the years.
2/3 of Americans own their home and it's
the biggest asset they own, okay? Prices
go up, they feel good. And it produces a
a wealth effect as well. But right now,
the first average first time home buyer
in America is 40 years old. Up from 33 7
years ago. So, we've creating this
generation of renters that are being
pushed into the market where they can't
get the American dream the way we
thought about it. So, that creates an
income stream for all Americans to
access. The democratization of alts is
bringing this new investment idea to
them and we're seeing adoption beyond
traditional pensioners and insurance
funds. So, this becomes a way to
diversify in a portfolio that more
people have access to and especially if
they can't get the American dream kind
of idea, this is one way to fill their
portfolio. American dream light. Own a
stream of revenue from rent. Exactly,
rather than actually the home because
ultimately you've got to diversify, but
it's a great point. I mean, this is to
me is really the highlight. People don't
have their money tied up in homes,
right? So, it has to go elsewhere and
that's what you're seeing in this space.
>> And it and it leads to the anxiety that
people feel because they can't tie their
money up in homes cuz that was the
American dream. But yeah, it speaks to
the real boom in alternatives right now.
How do you find ways to put that money
to work if it's not bond markets that's
not giving you that diversification
anymore? Luckily, we've got Tom Kennedy
with us the entire hour, which I'm so
pleased to say, of JP Morgan Asset
Management. Coming up, we're going to
speak with Erica de Jarian of UBS as
Wall Street bets on a mergers and
acquisitions boost. You've already seen
quite the boost with a whole host of
mega deals on deck. What could come
[music] next? You Hire Anand is also
going to be joining with your morning
movers. Trump Media jumping
>> [music]
>> as it gets into the business of fusion
energy. We'll explain. We'll attempt to
explain. Tom Kennedy will explain. Tom,
you'll read it on that in the break.
From New York, this is Bloomberg
Surveillance. Good morning.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Seeing a boost to equities after four
straight [music] days of losses led for
now at least by big tech on the heels of
Micron. What you can see is just about
an 8/10 of a percent gain on Nasdaq
futures. S&P up about half that, about
4/10 of a percent. [music] Russell 2000
lagging behind as people question just
how much heat there is in the US economy
in twos, tens, and 30s. It's the reason
why you're getting a bit of bid into
bonds, particularly [music] on the front
end as people look to possibly more rate
cuts early next year from the Federal
Reserve following what we saw from
[music] the Bank of England. 3.46% on
the two-year yield. That 30-year yield
is pinned there at 4.83%. [music]
Take a look at the pound intraday. You
did see a pop initially after the
decision came out five to four, a
hawkish cut down to the lowest level
going back to 2023. [music]
It's now just about flat, but Danny
really highlighting some of the concerns
that people have about the Bank of
England's ability to cut more even with
a deteriorating economic backdrop.
>> Bank of England highlighted that
themselves, the lower propensity of
their ability to cut because of what's
happening with inflation. It mirrors
[music] the conversation happening with
a lot of central banks. Be it here in
the US, largely expected to cut, but a
division really growing among the board.
The ECB, they're expected to hold today
at 8:15 a.m. When you had an ECB
official just this month saying that
maybe the next move is going to be a
hike. That's not consensus, but it's a
growing divide because of this pressure
from the dual mandates. [music]
>> Nobody on the Bank of England voted to
hike rates. So, there is that. Right
now, two hours away from the cash open
here are your morning movers with you,
Hire Anand. Hire. Hi Lisa. Micron to the
rescue in this jittery market. We are
seeing shares popping now 14 and a half
percent in the pre-market after the
company blew past estimates saying that
[music] demand for its memory chips is
far outstripping supply and that is
giving them major pricing power. What
analysts are saying is that those price
[music] increases for those memory chips
are unlikely to abate anytime soon. So,
it bodes [music] well for Micron.
Meanwhile, we moving on to Trump Media.
Those shares are popping 22%
in the pre-market on news in the last
[music] hour that the social media
company behind Truth Social is getting
into the fusion power business by
merging with TAE Technologies in a $6
billion
all-stock transaction. It is an unusual
tie-up, but of course, [music] it is
tied around this bet on the insatiable
power demand needed to run [music] AI
data centers. And we end on Medline. The
stock is pulling back this morning, down
6% in the pre-market after an explosive
[music]
market debut yesterday that saw shares
pop more than 40%. This is a medical
supplies company that does provide
everyday gear for for hospitals. So,
it's not a big tech company and it
raised more than $6 billion
in the biggest [music] IPO this year,
capping off a strong showing for
listings here in the US in 2025, Lisa.
Thank you so much, Yahaira. Tom Kennedy
of JP Morgan here having done a deep
dive into Trump Media and nuclear fusion
and the connection between the two. So,
what'd you come up with?
I'll have to get back [laughter] to you
guys next week. Invite me back. We'll
have you back. Tom Kennedy's hot take on
that on our radar this morning.
President Trump saying he will announce
his nominee to replace Federal Reserve
Chair Jay Powell soon.
Soon announce our next chairman of the
Federal Reserve, someone who believes in
lower interest rates by a lot and
mortgage payments will be coming down
even further. Fed Governor Christopher
Waller, NEC Director Kevin Hassett, and
former Fed Governor Kenneth Kevin Warsh
are all considered the top contenders to
replace Powell. Really, the ultimate
question comes down to how much does it
really matter? I mean, Tom, does it
matter in any way, shape, or form who
the next Fed Chair is if it is a
committee that has to vote on something
and be some sort of consensus?
>> It definitely matters, but it matters a
little bit less when you can acknowledge
that it's a committee and it is a
committee when you're in the room.
That's exactly the way it will work. But
we're used to Fed Chairs that gather
consensus and they bring the committee
along and they shepherd the market in a
very smooth way. Look, one of the
biggest adversaries of an investment
portfolio is volatility. So, if the Fed
Chair is adding volatility, that's a big
problem. When you look at all three of
these, I think the market will accept
them and it will be fine.
I think Waller is the one who's the
known quantity, so it will bring
volatility down
and he still has been very vocal about
advocating for interest rate cuts in a
framework data-based way. Well, it
speaks to this idea that one of the
important tools the Fed has is
communication, that they're able to
reshape markets by building this
consensus and having a Fed Chair at the
helm who can communicate that. On the
other side of things, Jason Furman now
of Harvard, previously worked in the
government, saying, "Hey, this is a good
thing." He's not the only person saying
that, but this is a good thing to have a
diversity of ideas within the Fed. It's
a healthy thing not to have a god-like
figure who's at the Fed, is the chair,
and decides everything for everybody
else.
>> that Jay Powell is very happy that
you're implying [laughter] that he's a
god-like figure. Meanwhile, BP
appointing Mego O'Neill as CEO,
replacing Murray Auchincloss. The change
coming as the oil giant struggles to
revive its fortunes after a botched
pivot toward renewables. O'Neill will be
the big oil's first female leader. We'll
get into that in a bit with Elliott's
fingerprints on this as well. Meanwhile,
OpenAI is reportedly in talks to raise
tens of billions of dollars at a
valuation of about $750 billion
according to the tech news website, The
Information. Discussions are preliminary
and the details could change. It just
highlights how OpenAI is the center of
absolutely everything when people talk
about their worries about overspend in
AI. Yeah, and maybe the benefit that
OpenAI has is that its funding rounds
happen in private in the dark. You don't
necessarily see ramifications in public
debt debt markets that you would in an
Oracle, for example. And the news that
Blue Owl wouldn't be a part of this
Michigan data center that they're having
cuz that is the fear. Maybe we're kind
of misplaced worrying about a bubble in
valuations. Maybe it's whether just or
not that they can continue to get
funding for their data center builds
out. What happens if you have more
players and more bond market starting to
rebel against the idea. Maybe OpenAI
will just get purchased by Nvidia. Maybe
this will be one of the M&A deals
announced. Actually, no one is
speculating about that, but there will
be a lot of M&A next year. This is the
expectation from Wall Street. Erica de
Jarian of UBS writing, "Banks might be
more motivated to close larger deals
ahead of any potential shift in power in
Congress. The first half of 2026 could
be a robust time for deal
announcements." Erica, I'm so pleased to
say joins us now. Erica, great to see
you.
>> Good to see you. I'm not saying that
Open AI and Nvidia are going to merge,
but there is this feeling that there is
an acceleration in the deal space. Just
how much pipeline is there behind that?
I think bankers are not going to have a
fun Christmas season. I think they're
going to be at their desk working
because I think 2026 is going to be the
year of big. You know, we're we're you
know, I cover banks. So whenever we talk
about M&A, we think about regional banks
merging for synergies. But given the
deregulatory framework and given that
you do have the midterms as sort of an
important waypoint in time, you know, I
think you could have banks and other
companies across the space really
thinking about where their strategic
holes are and addressing it that way. So
I think it's going to be more than just
okay, we're going to do deals to cut
costs. I think they're going to use this
as sort of a you know,
once-in-a-generation opportunity
um to redeploy capital in a very
specific strategic way. So because a lot
of the deals we've seen have been really
big. I mean whether it be in IPOs, the
Medline IPO coming on the market earlier
this year with EA, the huge amount of
numbers that are being put to that.
Whatever is going to happen with Warner
Brothers Discovery, maybe we add that in
that whole hot mess of potato in with
that too. How much of this in the
resurgence of deals are about big size
deals versus volume of deals? I I I
think you could get both, right? So
first of all, the sponsors haven't
really
um
you know, exited much. So we're waiting
for that. You know, the market is at
all-time highs. Spreads are at all-time
tight. So it feels like now is the time.
And I was here last week when I had this
analogy that this administration was
going to put lipstick and contour on
this economy to get it through the
finish line for the you know, to um you
know, to the November you know,
midterms, right? And so you could have
sort of also a macro backdrop and maybe
we get one or two rate cuts that's quite
favorable for this environment. By the
way, can I just say we should only start
using makeup metaphors and no more
baseball metaphors? No more innings,
only lipstick and contour. I'm
absolutely on board with that, Erica.
How much of this though when it comes to
strategics versus private capital?
Because to your point, they're still
sitting on a lot that they need to exit.
Are they willing to take a discount or
is the environment gotten so good that
things that they maybe overspent on in
2021 and 2022, they can sell at a price
that they agree to?
>> Well, I think you still have a pretty
significant valuation disparity and I
think you also have you know, your
deployment of capital is not going to be
as you know, those those investments are
not necessarily going to be as good as
those that you're trying to exit, right?
So I think that's going to be you know,
continue to be a challenge, but
nevertheless, I think in particular with
I think the advisory pipeline is going
to be
is actually quite strong and you had the
government shut down. So the fourth
quarter is going to look a little bit
light. So that's going to have the
effect of pushing a lot of these
announcements into the first quarter.
And so you're you know, every sort of
Sunday evening or Monday morning is
going to be boom boom boom in terms of
announcements, I think when we kickstart
the year. Talk to me a little bit more
about the financial M&A. Yeah. On the
strategic side, what are the strategic
priorities of an M&A for for banks at
this point if it's going to happen in
the first half of next year? So scale
and completeness Okay. in in my opinion.
Um and additionally
um an agent tech. So for example, you
know, it's pretty clear that scale is
getting to be even more important
um given the technological demands,
um the investments that are needed in AI
and the like, right? So that's number
one. You know, number two, you know, you
work at a company that's very diverse
for example, Mhm. right? And so the
whole idea of a booming money center
complete money center bank, I think is
you know, highly subscribed by the
market. So let's say you're a an
investment bank, maybe you're seeking
more of a wealth
aspect or you know, Wells Fargo, you
know, has you know, mentioned
potentially
um expanding in growth areas if it were
appropriate. You know, so these are sort
of the strategic um you know, points
that I think are going to be addressed
in the new year. A lot of people are
very excited about financials at the
same time that they're very concerned
about some sort of glut in private
credit, some sort of excess that could
potentially come to roost in 2026. Is
there a dissonance in this? The idea
that people think that there is no
credit risk in banks, but there is full
credit risk in private credit?
You can't have an explosion without
getting shrapnel,
right? So I would say a couple things.
Number one, everybody is hyped about
bank stocks, but bank stocks rarely
outperform the S&P two years in a row,
right? And when it's happened, it's
happened on the back of a recovery
cycle, right? Think post-GFC or post the
dot you know, the dot-com bubble, right?
So
the bar is high.
Second, we have to watch the sector
rather than just say, okay, there's
something
um you know, out there that we have to
be nervous about. What do I mean? Is
there froth in data centers? Is there
froth in you know, other So it's really
a sector issue rather than structure. So
really it's going to be you know, right
what the banks have done is they've
indirectly lent to financial
institutions that then lent to the
companies, right? And we saw in the um
matter of the you know, First Brands for
example, that when you have you know, uh
an explosion, you know, obviously
there's fraud, the banks will catch some
shrapnel. So we'll see. Well, Tom, to
your point to this point, I mean how
much are people understating some of the
credit risks here given the concerns
about the likes of Tricolor First
Brands? I think what Erica's trying to
drive out here too is the important
piece of this it can't be just private
credit is the issue and not the banks. I
mean let's just acknowledge that up
front. But as you're moving through this
froth, I think this the way you made the
comment about the fraud is
when we look back in history, guys,
fraud is a bankruptcy. It's not a oh,
it's fraud, that gets an asterisk. Like
we we have if we have these types of
problems that are going to surface, I do
think the banks will get tied down to
that. So maybe Erica, last question.
As you separate these, which banks are
best positioned into 2026 if we were to
hit a default cycle?
Just the well-diversified banks or is
there something to that
uh an angle that you focus on? And by
the way, it's not a coincidence that
Tricolor and First Brands were in the
same sector, right? So this this goes
back to what I was saying, it has to be
sector. Look, I really like Bank of
America here, right? So all the things
that you know, perhaps was a negative
for Bank of America to directly answer
your question, not growing as fast as
others, you know, being a little bit
more conservative in an environment
where you know, there's a little bit
more uncertainty and maybe we are just
band-aiding band-aiding the economy, you
know, I I think they you know, could
potentially perform well and the
valuation is you know, not all that
demanding. You know, uh a company like
you know, Capital One. You know, the um
that lower end of the K has taken hits
already, right? I mean we've talked a
lot about the K-shaped economy, but
who's been dealing with inflation since
2021? It's been the lower end of the K.
Um so I think that you know, those two
stocks stack up really well for 26.
Erica, thank you so much as always for
being with us. Erica Nygren of UBS.
Right now, let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere. Here is your
Bloomberg Brief with Yomaira on Yomaira
Hira. Hi, Lisa. Calls are growing for
the EU to approve a massive loan to
Ukraine backed by frozen Russian assets
without the [music] support of Belgium.
Kyiv's finances are likely to run out in
a matter of months without the boost.
Meanwhile, US and Russian officials are
set to meet in Miami this weekend for
continuing talks [music] on a peace
plan.
Meanwhile, a Warner Brothers Discovery
shareholder has approached New York
hedge fund Standard General to acquire
all or part of its cable [music] TV
assets. The Financial Times reports the
fund's founder Soo Kim has been involved
in the talks which would include the
sale of CNN. It comes after Warner
Brothers urged shareholders [music] to
reject a $108 billion hostile takeover
offer from Paramount Skydance.
And Trump Media and Technology Group
agreeing to merge with TAE Technologies
in an all-stock transaction valued at
more than $6 billion. The transaction is
set to create one of the world's most
first publicly traded fusion companies.
The new venture plans to begin
construction on a utility scale power
plant as early as next year. That's your
Bloomberg [music] Brief, Lisa. Thank you
so much, Yomaira. Up next, inflation
signals.
We are yet to see the full effects of
tariffs
>> [music]
>> on the inflation data. And sure, while
it may be a one-time price shock, I
think uh it's a little too early to
declare victory uh on inflation [music]
yet. Adrian Yea of Barclays joins us
next on the consumer. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Seeing a bounce to equities after four
straight days of losses. It's coming
from the tech sector after the tech has
lagged behind. Micron [music] giving a
bit of optimism here. Meanwhile, yields
bid, but not as much as earlier in the
session. Now [music] almost 4.14% on the
10-year. Take a look at Nike shares.
Premarket trading up almost a percent
ahead of earnings after the bell. Those
shares lower about 11% so far this year.
Can they deliver on a turnaround
strategy? And what do they say about the
US consumer in particular under
surveillance this morning inflation
[music] signals?
There seems to be this
view in the Fed that inflation is really
not [music] a problem right now. I think
it's a little too premature to to think
that inflation is going to take care of
itself. We are yet [music] to see the
full effects of tariffs on the inflation
data and sure while it may be a one-time
price shock, I think [music] it's a
little too early to declare victory on
inflation yet.
>> Here's the latest in November CPI print
dropping this morning such offer
investors a partial snapshot of
inflation ahead of the new year. Adrian
Ye of Barclays saying the consumer has
shown resilience this year but sees a
quote potential tariff driven inflation
on the horizon. Adrian joins us now.
Adrian, thank you so much for being with
us. We've seen this when parsing through
all of the retail earnings how different
companies have managed through
inflation. Do you think this is just the
beginning in terms of being able to
selectively increase prices on specific
goods?
Yeah, actually we have not actually seen
broad scale inflation across apparel and
footwear. I'll talk about kind of
year-to-date what we've seen inflation
sort of in the hard lines, home
furnishing sector and then the footwear
industry was actually ahead of the
inflationary price increases. Today
broadly Nike, On, Hoka, they all took
price increases up by about mid-single
digit in July. Across apparel we've seen
virtually no price increases but for you
know just modest kind of normal way
price increases. And so really what
you're seeing with the strength of the
economy is pricing that has been
relatively benign in terms of
inflationary pressure and yet the
the cost side of it, the margin side of
it actually still hasn't come through on
the P&L either. So all of this is
horizon risk for the forward kind of
spring season when you'll see you know
the other 80% of apparel discretionary
actually start to raise prices and
that's almost see kind of demand
destruction. Adrian, yes.
>> does Nike though have the ability within
all of these macro headwinds to also
deliver the innovation that should they
need to readjust prices or should they
not want to keep discounting they can
get consumers to the stores and buying
new sneakers?
So this is a so what you're describing
is turning
a product around and a brand around that
has lost some of its brand heat and
raising prices while doing so. Those two
things are incongruous. They are very
difficult to happen at the same time and
what I will say is that Nike has cleaned
up the marketplace. Remember there are
these big three classics, the Air Force
One, the AJ Air Jordan One and the Dunks
which they removed because there was
just lack of innovation. So what we're
seeing with Nike is strength in their
performance run. So the Pegasus, the
Vomero, right, the structure, the
Invincible. In that performance run
they're sort of catching up to where On
and Hoka had been with that thicker
platform. So it remains really to be
seen whether they can take that one
portion of the performance piece of the
business and then bolt on kind of the
leisure lifestyle, right, the the
strength that they typically have seen
kind of in the marketplace.
Our our preview would suggest that they
are going to beat the quarter this
evening.
Usually when you're giving that guidance
you're giving it mid-quarter you have a
very good look at the wholesale order
book in the quarter. I think they will
talk positively about the forward spring
order book. Having said that they're
unwinding a lot of the reset actions
that they did last year and so they're
going to forego some of these low
quality sales in the third and the
fourth quarter, their fiscal third and
fourth quarters and that may kind of cap
the top line. Margins should be better
but the the top line you know probably
will be constrained. And I'll say my
final point here is not about FY26. FY26
ending May should be fine. We'll beat
the second quarter, we'll kind of temper
the back half but it's really about the
forward two years where we're looking
for 400 basis points of margin expansion
with 10% top line growth. Those things
don't happen at the same time. Adrian, I
wonder when when companies are trying to
mount this turnaround especially with
all these headwinds be it you know
locally with their innovation or the
macro headwinds, how important it is at
who's at the top. And I ask this because
Nike new CEO just last year in October
2024. This week the discussions around
Lululemon with an exit of their CEO and
Elliott pushing for a new one from Ralph
Lauren. Adrian, can these changes happen
if you have the old guard at the top or
for apparel and consumer facing
companies struggling, do they need to
have a rethink of their C-suite in order
to succeed?
Absolutely. You know it's it's what one
of the things that we're learning
through all this tumultuous time, right,
for the past five years, frankly for the
past 10 years. We've had the digital
economy. We've had COVID. We've had you
know
supply chain, right, the the supply
chain was was you know stuck for for
2022. So you've had inventory issues,
supply chain issues, everything. And
what I would say is the the guiding
factor for for investors and for us as
analyzing companies is you are investing
in the management and you are investing
in the confidence that they can navigate
each one of these successively even
though they don't know what the next
shock event's going to be that they have
the wherewithal to do that over time. So
absolutely
and the final thing that I'll say here
is what you're looking for in that
management in consumer retail you are
looking for product, brand, customer
experience. Those are the three things
you want to hear the management talking
about and you hear that from Elliott
Hill at Nike. You hear that from the new
Gap CEO
Richard Dixon and and it's no surprise
that you're starting to see some of
those changes happen at those companies.
Adrian Ye of Barclays, thank you so much
for being with us. Tom Kennedy, a final
word here ahead of CPI and jobless
claims. What do you think we're going to
be most surprised about heading into
2026, the resilience of the consumer or
the consumer falling off? I think we'll
be surprised about the resiliency of the
consumer in thanks to the the big
beautiful bill and the rate cuts coming
through. I think consumer will be
resilient. I think the things we need to
be looking out for are how persistent
can this
tariff led inflation be. Fed's banking
it won't be. It's going to be a one-time
shock. So we need to look for that and
then really think that the the K-shaped
economy will close a little bit in a
positive way where the bottom end comes
up. I think that's the the most likely
outlook for 2026. Tom Kennedy, it is a
pleasure having you here. Thank you so
much for spending the hour with us.
Let's do it again sometime soon. Tom
Kennedy of JP Morgan Asset Management.
Danny Burger, I believe you're doing 45
hours of TV today so we're going to let
you go prepare for the rest of it.
Always wonderful to see you and great
interview with Ken Griffin earlier this
week. Really [music] interesting. If you
haven't seen it, check it out on YouTube
or the Bloomberg website. Coming up next
hour as we do await that economic data.
Emily Roland of John Hancock, Seema Shah
Principal Asset Management Aaron
McLaughlin of The Conference Board
[music] and Brent Schutte of
Northwestern Mutual. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance. Good morning.
>> [music]
>> There are a lot of tailwinds supporting
the economy for next year. I do have to
see an economy that keeps chugging
along. If it doesn't, you're going to
have a problem.
>> One of the key themes that we've noted
for this year is people really
underpricing kind of the macro risk.
>> We still have a problem with inflation.
[music]
>> There's certainly a risk here that you
could see inflation that's a bit more
sticky.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz
and Anne Marie Hordern.
Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance. CPI on deck along with
jobless [music] claims in about a half
an hour as we try to end the year on a
high note. Also waiting for an ECB rate
[music] decision following that Bank of
England rate cut about an hour ago. All
eyes very much [music] on the US
consumer as we suss out any sense of the
US economy heading into next year. David
Gura back in the hot seat I'm so pleased
to say joining us [music] for the next
hour and David really it is all going to
be about what we get in a half an hour's
time. The first CPI report from the
United States going [music] back to
September.
>> Absolutely and an incomplete one so
we'll see sort of what actual tangible
information we get from that and of
course that dovetailing with
complemented by the ECB decision.
[music]
Yes, Christine Lagarde's going to be
speaking but Isabel Schnabel, member of
the governing council, looming large in
light of the comments that she made to
Bloomberg earlier [music] this week.
>> The idea of potentially hiking rates not
cutting them. Nonetheless as we were
talking about with Tom Kennedy in
[music] the last hour, he was saying
look, there is a bias to cut rates right
now because the labor market front and
center [music] is clearly showing signs
of weakening possibly beyond what's
being shown by headline numbers. So at a
certain point what's more important, CPI
or jobless claims [music] with this kind
of backdrop from the United States?
>> continues. I took a few days off, came
back and seems like we're dealing with
the same issues over and over again. The
kind of preeminence of the central bank
versus what's happening in the AI space.
Lo and behold, good news in the AI space
yesterday and we see markets reacting
strongly [music] to that this morning.
>> Yeah, just a cheat sheet. We're going to
be talking about the same theme for the
probably the next six months. So David,
[laughter] if you take a break come
back. Hopefully you don't take a break.
We love having you. Right now you are
seeing a bit of a snap in that four-day
losing streak as people try to get some
optimism as [music] David was talking
about. Maybe Micron helping to boost
spirits. 4/10 of a percent gain on S&P
futures. We are seeing just a bit
[music] of euro weakness ahead of that
ECB rate decision. 117 on the
euro-dollar cross and 10-year yields
lower by more than two basis points,
4.13%. [music]
Crude still in that 50 to 60 dollar
range although climbing just a bit after
yesterday at the potential for some sort
of disruption in [music] Venezuela.
Coming up this hour, do not miss this.
The great Emily Roland of John Hancock
Investment Management as stocks are
rising. Seema Shah Principal Asset
Management as European Central Bank is
set to make its final rate decision of
2026. And Aaron McLaughlin of the
Conference Board breaking down the
November CPI data. We begin this hour
with stocks looking to snap that
four-day losing streak. Emily Roland of
John Hancock Investment Management
writing, "We are constructive on US
equities into 2026. We still see an
impressive earnings engine driven from
AI productivity gains. The challenge we
continue to face is that valuations are
rich." And Emily joins us right now.
Thank you so much for being with us.
Great to see you. I'm curious about
valuations. The fact that everyone is so
worried about valuations, how much
relief does that give you?
Yeah, I mean, look, we're at 22.5 times
forward earnings. The highest in history
was 24 times. So, we're not going to see
a lot of multiple expansion into next
year. But, the good news is that the
earnings engine in the United States is
on. Analysts are looking at 14% earnings
growth for next year. So, the
denominator's almost more important to
us than the numerator here. And there
are some tailwinds for US companies into
next year. We've got the provisions in
the one big beautiful bill lowering the
effective corporate tax rate. We have
oil prices falling. That's great for the
consumer. It's good for transportation
costs for businesses. We've got the US
dollar falling. We just saw one of the
weakest years for the dollar in modern
history. Remember, 40% of the revenues
of US companies are derived from
overseas. So, there's a lot of things
happening that I think can go right for
companies into next year. It's just is
the bar too high? Well, is the bar too
high for Big Tech and can Big Tech lead?
Because all of the companies in the
sectors that you just mentioned were
consumer facing or companies that were
not necessarily in this haloed sphere of
the Magnificent Seven. I know you have
been overweight Big Tech for the bulk of
2025. Are you shifting that heading into
2026 because of this type of thesis of
strength elsewhere? Yeah, I mean, we are
looking for a broadening out in terms of
market participation. And we're already
seeing that with sectors like healthcare
and industrials getting in the mix. We
are always firm believers of following
where the earnings are going. And we are
expected to see earnings delivered by
different sectors in the S&P 500 next
year. We still want quality. We want to
find it at a reasonable price. We want
to look for relative value. And look, we
still like tech, but there's no doubt
about it. It's expensive. The S&P 500
growth index trading at about a 50%
premium to its long-term average. We
like the high-quality parts of tech, but
there's been a bit of a dash for trash
as of late as investors have just been
dominated by technicals, by sentiment. I
have personally been dusting off my like
technicals books because it's the only
thing that's mattered. Valuations
haven't mattered at all to this market.
I think that gets a little trickier into
next year, but it's been about
technicals, been about momentum. If a
chart's going up, investors are buying
it. And that's pretty tricky for people
that are focused on fundamentals and
economic cycles like we are. What's your
takeaway from what we saw with Micron
Technologies yesterday? So,
high-bandwidth memory. I had to look it
up. You talk about the haloed
Magnificent Seven. We're moving beyond
that. We're talking about the things
that complement the chips that we spend
so much time learning about and talking
about on air here.
Seems like a bright spot. Seems like
something again beyond that core that's
been such a focus over the course of
this last year. Is there a lesson to
take away from that in terms of breadth
moving into something like that?
>> Yeah, I mean, it's a reminder that AI is
real. It's producing
productivity-enhancing technology, which
is really accretive for corporate
earnings and for the US economy. The
challenge again is that tech is
overconcentrated. It's overloved. It's
overbought at these levels. Tech kind of
reminds us of like it's been such a big
driver for portfolios. You know, the S&P
500's compounding at 20% annualized over
the past 3 years. So goes the S&P, so
goes tech. It's kind of like do you ever
have one of those like go-to outfits in
your closet? Like we all have that. And
sorry, I'm looking at these ties.
Yeah. The blue suit and tie. It's a good
one. Yeah. It's like the way technology
stocks feel to us right now. It's like
you don't need to get rid of it from
your closet. But, people are like, "Did
Lisa wear that jacket already?" Like
hey, this is getting really old,
Emily. Carry on though. Maybe it's a
little getting a little warm. Like so,
it's about keeping [laughter] your go-to
piece in your closet, but thinking about
like what's the next best thing in
Lisa's closet for next year. So, maybe
it's mid-cap stocks. Like maybe it's,
you know, industrial companies that are
benefiting from onshoring and investment
in the United States. Maybe it's
healthcare names that are cheap and have
great return on equity. Like we got to
find that next thing to round out the
closet without throwing away the tech
stocks.
>> A minute ago, you'll forgive me, you
sounded a lot like the president last
night talking about what's to come in
2026. The the rewards of the one big
beautiful bill, the tax incentives that
are coming to an effect, maybe more
certainty when it comes to the economy
based on the the trade policy. How much
of that is being communicated? We're at
a moment here where poised to get yes
and complete hard data from the federal
government, but sentiment data is still
not great, shall we say? How do you look
at those two things in complement?
>> Well, sentiment data just again hasn't
been helpful.
People are saying that things are
terrible, yet consumers continue to to
buy. You know, we saw that in retail
sales being pretty decent. We're seeing
this incredible wealth effect. That's
the thing that's driving this market.
You look at back-to-back 25-plus percent
returns in '23 and '24. We're on track
for 15-plus percent returns this year.
That is feeding into portfolios and
helping that higher-end consumer who has
a record amount of stock holdings right
now feeding back into the economy. So,
it's almost like the stock market is
like the tail that's wagging the dog of
the economy right now, which is a twist
on the way that we used to think about
things. So, I think that's really
helping the overall picture even though
people are saying that things aren't
great. Which is a reason why people are
so focused right now on the CPI report
and the idea of what the Fed's going to
do with this. How much leeway do they
have to actually engage in some sort of
rate-cutting cycle? And really, the
proof is going to be in how much
inflationary pressure there is. You have
been overweight bonds for a lot of this
year. You have believed in this bond
rally. Are you pulling back from that
because there isn't really this lip
service being given by the Fed to the
financial conditions aspect of this
entire story as you were just laying
out?
>> We're actually leaning into bonds more
as rates back up. It feels right now
like bonds are sort of like dazed and
confused. They're not acting right. You
know, you have them being kind of jerked
around by what's going on in Japan right
now. You've got this sort of Fed chair
bingo. Like which Kevin is it going to
be? That's impacting bond yields. You've
got all sorts of dynamics. The lack of
government data. Yes, we're going to get
CPI, but a lot of people are just going
to discount it. We're not going to get a
month-over-month number because we
didn't get the October data. So, bonds
are sort of backing up. bond vigilantes
are coming in with concerns about the
deficit and the one big beautiful bill.
The bond vigilantes kind of feel like
that uncle that's coming into the
holiday party and disrupting the mood.
You know, when bonds wake up, they
should see bond yields move lower into
next year based on the macro picture.
>> So, you're talking about strength in the
consumer supporting a broadening out at
the same time that you're talking about
bonds reclaiming their haven as some
sort of defensive trade. How do both of
these things work together?
>> Yeah, well, I didn't say the consumer
was doing awesome. The top 10% of
earners are doing well.
And they're controlling, you know, 50%
of spending. But, we've got some real
cracks in the labor market here. Things
are not looking great. Investors are
completely brushing past this, you know,
these negative months that we've seen in
terms of nonfarm payrolls. We think
that's important. Layoff tallies are
picking up significantly. But, the thing
that I don't think people are talking
about enough is the housing market right
now. Shelter's 35% of headline CPI. It
is weakening notably. Not according to
the BLS data. That's probably really
backward-looking. But, if you look at
Zillow, for example, home prices are
flattening. They're up about 0%.
Apartment List is telling us that rental
prices last month just dropped the most
on a month-over-month basis in 15 years.
Negative 1% on apartment
listings. So, what we're seeing is that
that shelter disinflation, we think that
that starts to show up into next year.
Those layoff tallies we talked about,
there's usually a 6-to-8-week lag in
terms of when that shows up in initial
jobless claims. So, I think the labor
market's probably weaker than it looks
on the surface right now. And that
shelter disinflation is also going to
prompt the Fed to cut probably more than
the bond market expects next year. Emily
Roland, so good to see you. Thank you so
much for being here. Emily Roland of
John Hancock Investment Management. And
I will not be wearing this blazer next
time that I talk to her.
>> [laughter]
>> You know, my go-tos, I've got to say,
went very close home in the right way. I
mean, truth be told, don't we all have
that though? I mean, honestly, some
people really enjoy the shopping thing.
But, maybe I'm revealing too much of
myself.
Anyway, let's move on. Right now, let's
get you an update on stories elsewhere
this morning. Here is your Bloomberg
Brief with Hira Anwar. Hi, Lisa.
President Donald Trump announcing a
holiday bonus for military service
members in honor of the nation's
founding year. Those in the military
will receive a warrior dividend, a check
[music]
of $1,776
before
Christmas. The president's [music]
also planning, quote, "the most
aggressive housing reform in American
history." Those are expected to be
rolled out in the new sweeping new hate
speech laws in the aftermath of the
terror [music] attack that saw 15 people
killed at a Hanukkah celebration in
Sydney. The laws include a new
offense for aggravated [music]
hate speech, a new federal offense for
vilifying those based on race, and
making it easier for the country to
[music] refuse visas for those found
spreading hate.
And Washington, D.C. ramping up pressure
on Caracas. President Trump ordering a
blockade this week of sanctioned oil
tankers going in and out of Venezuela.
and according to data [music] compiled
by Bloomberg, the move is helping to
push inflation in the country over 500%.
[music] This as a Chinese official
expressed support for Venezuela saying
it opposes quote unilateral bullying.
That's Bloomberg [music] brief, Lisa.
Thank you so much, Yohaira. Up next, the
ECB set to make its final interest rate
decision of the year. Seema Shah,
Principal Asset Management with us to
break down the results. [music] After
what we got from the Bank of England, a
rate cut, don't expect a repeat from the
ECB. It is likely to be a bit of a
different tone. This [music] is
Bloomberg Surveillance.
>> [music]
>> Welcome back to Bloomberg Surveillance.
We are getting an ECB rate decision.
They voted to hold rates steady saying
they're not pre-committing to any kind
of rate cutting path. They're looking at
data dependency [music] meeting by
meeting keeping the deposit facility
rate at 2%. That was the estimate. Let's
get some details from that decision.
Jamie Rush of Bloomberg Economics here
with the results. Jamie, when you parse
through all of the details, what stands
out to you?
Well, I think it's it's more about what
is the what is it that the guards going
to say
at the press conference about the
outlook for inflation, how that appears
to be to be weakening
and what that means for interest rates
cuz of course they have held interest
rates steady. That was widely
anticipated.
The question now is what is the next
move? Is there any more room for them to
cut? Do they see more space to cut? Or
are they going to endorse Isabel
Schnabel's remarks the on the executive
executive board there that that perhaps
in the future the next move could be a
hike. I mean I think
those are the things we're going to
watching looking for the inflation
outlook looking for her remarks about
the near-term policy outlook. Yeah,
especially Jamie given the fact that
they're talking about economic growth
accelerating next year raising their
economic growth forecast to 1.2% for
2026 in the Eurozone from 1%. Granted,
it still is 1.2% not necessarily 2 or 3%
that you see in other regions.
Nonetheless, how much does that indicate
this focus on inflation that you did
talk about with Isabel Schnabel
discussing?
Well, I think I mean the key thing here
is that it it a growth as you mentioned
is still slow. It's still potentially
even below the trend growth rate of the
economy or very close to it. And of
course, it's not guaranteed. What we're
seeing is significant struggle for
economies like Germany to gain momentum
as China is slowing and its exports
markets are are not keeping pace. And of
course, we haven't yet felt the full
impact of higher tariffs which are still
feeding through to the Eurozone economy.
So,
the outlook is is
as usual uncertain.
Growth is tepid. This is an outlook
where you need to be vigilant. You need
to be thinking about whether
you need to provide more support to the
economy. So, I think it's I would say
that it's not a settled matter that the
ECB has left rates today at 2%. There
could be more to come in the year as we
proceed through the year. Jamie Rush of
Bloomberg Economics, thank you so much
for being with us. Right now what you do
see in markets is the euro just pulling
back from earlier losses almost flat
with the dollar and you are seeing muted
moves across the board. What stuck out
to stuck out to me was the fact that
2026 inflation is now expected to be
1.9% versus a prior forecast of 1.7%.
Sure, an increase but still well below
that 2% goal. David, it doesn't seem
like this is screaming inflation even as
they do upgrade some of their growth
forecasts. Absolutely. And again, I
think picking up on what Jamie was
saying a moment ago, I think we want to
get more insight into what this good
place as Christine Lagarde has called it
looks like how she sees it shaping up
over the course of these next few months
then just going back to those comments
Isabel Schnabel. Hard to understate how
seismic the reaction to those comments
was the prospect that there could be a
rate hike here in the near-term horizon.
Again, her relative comfortability with
that I think is something that we're
going to want to hear more about from
from the president of the ECB when she
speaks in a few minutes.
>> Yeah, let's talk to Seema Shah,
Principal Asset Management who joins us
now about just that. Seema, thank you
for being with us. We are seeing some
forecasts here that are interesting.
When you take a look at the ECB's
projection for 2026 inflation stripping
out food and energy, they now see it
2.2% versus the expected 1.9%.
How much is this an ECB prioritizing
inflation
above potentially allowing growth to
truly accelerate in the Euro region?
Hi, Lisa. Yeah, I think this is key. I
mean look, the ECB unlike the Fed is
going to be solely focused on inflation.
That is their mandate. So, they're going
to put a little bit more emphasis on
that. And so, to the point that yes,
growth is certainly looking a little bit
stronger next year. There's been
upgrades throughout the year. In fact,
unlike the US where you've seen
consensus forecast drop since beginning
of the year, European forecasts have
actually increased since the beginning
of the year. So, there has been an
improvement. Their sole focus though has
to be on inflation which means that
they're likely to keep at least I think
Lagarde is likely to maintain a slightly
hawkish narrative. But I don't think
that she's likely to kind of reinforce
Schnabel's comments about the next hike
[clears throat] next move being a hike.
Won't reinforce them but I wonder how
she addresses them effectively. So,
we've seen kind of the move since those
comments were made in that interview
with with Bloomberg and I think just the
fact that they exist at that spectrum of
looms larger over the shadowing itself
over the course of this meeting is
significant. What does she have to say?
How should she address? How do you
anticipate she's going to address those
comments?
Well, I think she's going to allude to
the the significant uncertainties that
there are about the outlook. You know,
as we've heard her say before, they feel
like they're in a good space. Good space
being that they have managed to navigate
this year's various challenges with
regard to trade tariffs
and managed to get to a spot where they
feel like growth can be stronger next
year without really suffering a major
inflation shock. So, that's a good
space. What that implies is that they
have the time, the patience almost to
sit it out and see how the economy
responds, how inflation responds. So, if
anything, we do think that Lagarde is
likely just to keep the door open
not really promising any kind of forward
guidance
but just talking about almost the data
dependency and seeing how inflation
above anything on the economic growth or
labor market side but how inflation
inflation expectations evolve over the
coming months. You'll forgive me for
going back to growth but I heard Jamie
Rush characterize it as tepid growth but
talk about all the uncertainty that
Europe is facing certainly so many
economies are facing right now. Yet if
you look at all of these forecasts in
aggregate, I think of OECD, IMF, World
Bank,
ECB now
even comments from the Federal Reserve
that are rosier than they had been.
There there is this sense that things
are improving and and getting better.
And and I wonder how you square that
with this overarching uncertainty that
still looms large here. If it has to do
with tariffs policy, if it has to do
with fiscal spending, there's still so
much that we don't know here. Given all
of that, Seema, how much credence can
you give to the forecasts the likes of
which we see today?
Well, so the improvement in the forecast
is something to do with the idea that
look, Europe hasn't been as badly hit by
trade tariffs in 2025 as expected. And
so, some of that is expected to follow
through to 2026 and some of the concerns
that existed just after liberation day
about Europe potentially being hit by
30% trade tariff have faded of course.
So, that's one thing. But I think the
main reason that you've seen these
upgrades to forecasts is around the
fiscal stimulus which is going to be
coming through. Now, the uncertainty
around that still exists in terms of
what what is the allocation of that
fiscal spending going to be, how much
does it feed through to the economy. But
just the size of that fiscal stimulus is
enough I think to lift economic growth
forecast by a bit. But to your point,
these are still quite small upgrades.
This is still growth which is expected
to be meaningfully less than the US. So,
you're not going to get too excited
about it.
But certainly there does feel like there
is a little bit more optimism than there
used to be around the European story.
But is there a broader takeaway from
central banks globally that see the
fiscal impulse and are not shying away
from either rate cuts or holding rates
steady because they want to allow growth
to take off. Does that make you more
inclined to buy the equity side of the
story than say the fixed income side of
the story because there is this focus on
growth?
Absolutely. You know, I think the equity
market story has become more attractive
for a lot of places. Of course, you're
going to take into the valuation side.
But the fundamental stories for a lot of
these countries have improved and you
can see a significant disparity with the
countries which haven't really embraced
that fiscal stimulus. And the UK is a
perfect example where they have
continued to tighten fiscal
and you've seen that equity markets in
general investor sentiment towards the
region has
>> [clears throat]
>> deteriorated whereas it has improved for
the for Europe. So, I think that is a
key narrative. It's one that's likely to
persist through 2026 as well.
There could of course be the
ramifications for the bond market and
how yields going to be performing. But
at least from an equity market side, a
lot of these countries do look more
attractive because of that fiscal story.
You know, the ECB just sort of
underscores this narrative that's taken
hold certainly in the United States that
you can have growth without inflation.
You can have a productivity led growth.
It's going to allow central banks to
hold rates either at neutral or even
potentially keep cutting while growth is
powered by the AI story. How feasible is
that? Do you think that people have
gotten a little bit too carried away
with that narrative?
Well, I think it's a narrative which is
important but I don't think it's
specifically very important for today.
And I think there's two contrasting
stories. For Europe, the concern isn't
really around
what the inflationary the deflationary
impact of AI is. I think the concerns on
the deflation side for Europe is really
around China's
exports as they try and move away move
their independence away from the US and
trying to broaden their export partners.
So, then really flooding European
markets with slightly cheaper exports
could put some downward pressure on on
their their inflation.
For the US, I think the AI story is a
little bit more pertinent because AI
adoption has been more so much more
significant. But even in the US,
certainly we are expecting that for
2026, for example,
inflation is going to be somewhat
elevated, certainly about the 3% level,
but that is something that equity
markets, general markets, can actually
absorb. And actually the central bank is
can be fairly comfortable with even if
they don't specifically say that 3% is
okay for the near term. See Michelle of
Principal Asset Management, thank you so
much for being with us and breaking down
the ECB rate decision. I'm struck by
some of these forecasts talking about
growth of 2.2%
2.1% talking about inflation at 1.9%
uh next year and then getting concerned
that maybe rates are too low and need to
be hiked. I mean, it's such a different
scenario heading into US CPI that we're
going to be getting in 5 minutes time.
Absolutely. It's fun to look at all of
these in compliment because of course
you have this Bank of England meeting on
the heels of their CPI report yesterday,
the way that that colored their decision
today or or didn't. Uh the degree to
which inflation's weighing on the ECB
decision. I don't know. It's it's it's
fascinating to kind of get a look at
them all together, Lisa. Yeah, you're
looking at uh European growth expected
to be 1.2% next year from an expected
1%. Is [music] that a concern for
inflation? In the United States,
November CPI data is set to cross with
the expected [music] 3% headline
year-over-year number. Aaron McLaughlin
of the Conference Board and Brent
Schuttey of Northwestern Mutual both
joining us down to uh joining us to
break down the numbers. Right now, a
lift to equity futures ahead of that
decision. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance. Good morning.
>> [music]
>> 25 seconds away from that key economic
data coming delayed. Nonetheless, uh
better late than never. What we are
seeing in markets is a positive lift.
This expectation, maybe we can uh
restart this rally up about a half a
percent on S&P futures. Yields decidedly
lower after the ECB and Bank of England
rate decisions down [music] four basis
points on the 10-year to 4.12%
as we do get that key inflation data
coming out of the United States. Just
crossing now. Let's head over to
Bloomberg's Michael McKee with the
numbers. Mike.
Well, better late than never is a good
way to put it, Lisa, because the news is
pretty good on a two-month basis.
Remember, we didn't get October CPI and
we're not going to get much out of that.
2.7% for the year-over-year move in CPI.
That is down from 3% in September, the
last release we got. The core CPI on a
year-over-year basis falls from 3% to
2.6%.
So, good news on inflation. Meanwhile,
good news on the job front with initial
jobless claims falling to 224,000
from 237,000
revised the week prior. On a continuing
basis, claims are at 1,897,000.
That's up from 1,830,000.
And finally, we've got the Philadelphia
Fed numbers coming out now. The business
outlook falls to -10.2
from -1.7.
The prices paid index falls though to
43.6 from 56.1. Employment at 12.9
versus 6.0. So, pretty much all of these
numbers are better in terms of their
trend. We'll break down what the CPI
numbers are telling us
while you break down what the markets
are telling us.
>> Well, right now, uh Mike, the markets
are cheering. Well, we'll get back to
you in just a second. Right now, this is
a collective scream of joy in Wall
Street because what you're looking at
are yields substantially lower across
the board on twos, tens, and 30s. And
you're seeing equities with a lift. This
is giving the green light to the Federal
Reserve to cut interest rates. You can
see that rally building at the front end
now down more than three basis points.
In the equity front, take a look at that
rally turbocharged, particularly for the
Russell 2000. It had been up about, you
know, less than a third of a percent.
Now we're looking at more than a 1%
gain, a similar move on the Nasdaq. S&P
futures up by 6/10 of a percent. When
you bleed this through the currency
space, we did just get an ECB on hold.
We are going to likely get a Fed that
potentially could be cutting rates,
which is leading to dollar weakness as
you would expect. Michael McKee have had
a couple of seconds to look through
this. Uh does anything stand out to you
that really uh does seem to move the
needle one way or another? Well, one
thing that is important to note about
this is that October and November
there's no October data. So, uh we don't
have uh the month-to-month changes in
most of the categories here. Some come
in electronically and looking at those,
we can see the gasoline prices in
November were up 3% after falling 2.1%
in the month of October. Uh another one
we have is new vehicle prices. They were
up a tenth in October and up two-tenths
in the month of November. Used cars up
7/10 in October, up just 3/10 in
November. So, an improvement there. Uh
most of what we're getting is
year-over-year numbers and we can say
that food 2.6%
uh was the increase on a annual basis
there. And food at home, the grocery
prices people are unhappy about, up
1.9%.
So, uh some improvement in inflation in
all of these areas. I'll continue to dig
into this uh as we try to figure out uh
what really drove the numbers this time.
Michael McKee, thank you so much. What?
>> very fast. It's just amazing. He's
absolutely fantastic. I am curious
[laughter]
though about the line items. I do think
the line items are going to
>> aren't feeling great about things or
where they're headed.
>> Your
average American consumer is not
necessarily paying attention to today's
number. And they're paying attention to
what their insurance costs are, what
their how much it costs to buy a car,
you know. We've noticed that, you know,
the average price of a new car is now
over $50,000. And people used to take
out five or six year loans on a new car,
they're taking out six or seven year
loans on a new car. So, it's just there
sort of these big decisions that
consumers face. And also the small
decisions at the grocery store that
impact them. Just quickly here, the
labor market side of things, the jobless
claims, how much can the Fed cut if we
don't see any kind of pick up in layoffs
or real weakness accelerate?
Well, I think that's a great question.
So, we don't have great data for the
last couple months. We also saw that a
lot of the data that we saw most
recently was due to the government
shutdown and due to folks in the
government workforce perhaps perhaps,
you know, exiting at the end of that
federal year at September 30th. In the
where we see growth is in health care
and in some other industries. So, I
think it'll be really important to sort
of look beneath look underneath the job
numbers to see, you know, if we're
peaking at 4.6,
you know, what's growing, what's not
growing, and then that will be able to
tell us more about how next year is
going to be. Aaron McLaughlin of the
Conference Board, thank you so much for
being with us. Really appreciate it.
Brent Schuttey of Northwestern Mutual
Wealth Management joining us now. Brent,
what's your first reaction to the CPI
print? How much does it color how you
see investing next year and the backdrop
for the Fed?
I think it certainly helps the parts of
the market that you mentioned before,
small caps that have been harmed by
higher rates. And so, if you think about
the economy the past few years, it has
certainly been bifurcated as has the
market. It's been narrow, both in the
economy and the markets where you've had
the heavy lifting done by a few stocks
tied to higher income consumers and the
AI theme. And I think as you look at a
2026, we do see broadening where you see
small caps doing better, where you see
the average S&P stock doing better. I
think it's a risk management tool, but
it's also in 2026 a return enhancement
tool. And so that's my first thought. My
second thought is what's happening
underneath in the economy when you see
inflation pull back this much. How weak
is actually demand? And you mentioned
the labor market, which I think people
are giving CoStar clear because of
nonfarm payrolls being around 60,000,
which I remind you they were overstated
by 70,000 in the data going through to
March of this year. And the Federal
Reserve Chair Powell mentioned he still
thinks they're being overstated by 60K,
so they are right around zero.
And that's where I think there's some
risk still out that are out there. Do
you think that the market response, that
if this gives the Fed the green light to
cut rates, then that's positive for
equities is correct? Or do you think
that it's coming more from the labor
market weakness you were just
referencing?
I I think it's positive for a broader
set of equities and that's where I think
I I come back to it. No one knows
exactly what's going to happen in the
next 6 months. I think forecasting is
always difficult, but there certainly is
this odd kind of mix of policy that is
out there. And I think you can see that
through the Federal Reserve eyes where
if you had all 19 voters voting, it
would have been 12 to seven. And you see
those dissents and and that's where I
just think it's hard to figure out
what's going on in the near term. But if
I think about the long term, I do want
to pay attention to valuation. And
that's where I go I go back to those
areas of the market that people have
largely ignored. They haven't done as
well because of the impact of higher
rates. I think pushing forward in 2026,
you have valuation with you and you have
potentially the impact of rising
earnings in those parts of the market
for the first time in a few years.
Brent, let's have some fun here with
counterfactuals. You've opened the door,
so I'm going to drive my truck right
through it.
You know, I'm very curious if we'd
gotten these data before the last Fed
meeting, how that conversation in the
Eccles building would have been
different if at all. I mean, we talked a
lot about this being an insurance cut.
There were certainly a lot of questions
about whether the Fed should move then
or wait till January. Do the data that
we've got today give you any sense that
that it would have come the outcome
would have been different last week had
Fed officials gotten them?
Potentially, but I don't think people's
concerns about inflation longer term are
going away. This could be a certainly
tied to the government shutdown with
inflation coming down. It could
certainly be tied to labor market
weakening. Look, I I think inflation is
a longer term phenomenon. We have not
yet returned to 2%. The Fed's dot plot
doesn't show returning till what, 2028,
which is 7 years since.
And this is where I think there's
concerns about what happens next year
when stimulus gets layered on. What
happens next year when we get a new
Federal Reserve
chairman. And what happens longer term
to help pay back some of that debt. And
that's just where I think inflation
probably still is the longer term
outcome.
And that's where I think the concern of
some of those people on the Federal
Reserve would not have gone away.
Perhaps he would have swayed one or two
more people, but I think there are still
legitimate concerns and questions about
do we get back to 2% inflation absent
some sort of economic contraction in
2026, which no one is pricing in right
now.
Brent, the overlay here of course is
this AI story. We've been tracking that
day in and day out, all the ups and
downs. Certainly Micron the latest kind
of chapter in that in that narrative.
We heard policy makers engaging more
with this issue of productivity, what
this is going to mean for for the
economy or could mean for the economy
going forward. How are you thinking
about that in light of what you're
talking about here, the kind of the the
persistence of inflation into 2026, the
challenges facing this US economy going
forward?
I mean, we'll see on the productivity
aspect, but I I think companies are
still trying to figure out how to use it
to increase employees' productivity. And
I think that's a prime question as you
head into 2026. I think the reality is
you are starting to see it move through
different parts of the economy. So it
started out in the picks and shovels, I
guess, and now it's moving along to
companies like Micron. I eventually
assume it will do much like the internet
did, which is increased the productivity
and efficiency of all companies who
actually use it.
And so that's where I think you're
seeing winners and losers change. I
think you will continue to see that in
the future. And that's where I think
anyone investing solely in AI right now
or concentrating their portfolio in it
is taking risk they don't need to be
taking because I think there are
opportunities as it continues to shift,
as it continues to spread
through the economy for those companies
and stocks that have previously been
left out to start benefiting from it.
And that's where you saw this broadening
in 2000 through 2007 that occurred post
kind of the concentration in 1998, 1999,
which is eerily similar to today where a
few stocks did the heavy lifting for a
few years. People concentrated in those
unfortunately, and then the game changed
going forward, which I think is what's
going to happen as you push forward into
2026 and beyond. We're talking as we do
get that broadening out at least in the
initial price action this morning. If
you are just joining us, we did get the
CPI print from November, the first
inflation rate in the United States
going back to September. It was well
below expectations coming in at 2.7%
year-over-year versus the expected 3.1%.
Core CPI, stripping out energy and food
costs, looking at 2.6% year-over-year
versus the expected 3%. Then that is
good news. Disinflation, what we kind of
would like to see. On the flip side, we
didn't see initial jobless claims tick
up. We actually saw them come in
slightly below, the good kind of
downside surprise with 224,000
versus the 225,000
expected new jobless claims. The
response in markets has been a screaming
joy of success. You could see that gain
right now. Nasdaq futures up 1.4%. A
similar gain on the Russell 2000. Brent
Schutte, do you think that this is
sustainable into year end? Is this
enough for what people need to see?
I I think it is largely. I mean, I I
think the question of AI is still out
there. Now, this is where I I go back to
'99 and I think the the risk is similar
today as it was back then,
which I think was a very mild recession.
What impact does the potential market
have on the economy? So usually I think
of the opposite. I think of the economy
impacting the markets. That's why we pay
so much heed to it. But this time the
markets are trading at record multiples.
There is a lot of speculation that is
still occurring with non-profitable tech
stocks
and all the other things that are out
there.
And this is where the economy now is
dwarfed by the market, which I believe
the market is now 2.3 times the economy.
Is the risk there that the AI theme
starts fizzling out just a bit? And
that's where I think today's news is
good because I think it allows other
parts of the economy potentially to have
some life. But that's where I I think
this AI theme is incredibly important
pushing forward. And we'll see what
happens as we move through the day. If
the market holds these gains, I think
it's a positive. But certainly over the
past few weeks, you've had trouble
holding it based upon what's happening
in crypto, what's happening in AI. And
that's where I still think it's a
dominant theme to be seen. Brent Schutte
of Northwestern Mutual Wealth
Management, thank you so much for being
with us. Let's head back to Michael
McKee, who's been digging through this
report for details. Mike, what do you
see?
Well, I think Lisa, the most important
thing here is that we don't have the
monthly numbers for almost all of the
categories. This press release has a lot
of blank spaces on it. So you have to
look at the year-over-year changes and
we'll have to do some math to figure out
maybe what it is on a month-to-month
basis. But when you look at the changes
in some categories, they are good news.
Food at home example for example was up
2.7% on a year-over-year basis in
September, but only up 1.9%
in November in the two months that we
had no data that they came back down
again.
The goods prices, commodities ex-food
and energy up 1.4%.
That's down from 1.5%
and services
up 3% over the two months on a
year-over-year basis. That's down from
up 3.5%
and finally uh
the the BLS measure of home prices,
owner's equivalent rent, up 3.4% down
from 3.8%. So all of the categories, all
the major categories that people watch,
are down on a year-over-year basis. So
it looks like in October and November we
had some month-to-month declines. So
some better stuff and that's about all
we can say at this point. And you asked
the question earlier, does it change
what the Fed might have done? I don't
think so. There's not enough detail in
here for them to really make
any kind of decision on what it means
for the future. But for right now, it is
good news and it does show unexpected
progress on inflation. Michael McKee,
thank you so much as always for breaking
it down. It does seem like markets are
enjoying this. You aren't seeing though
a huge pop in the expectation for a Fed
rate cut come January. David, it seems
like people are looking at the jobs
picture as potentially the greater
impetus to cut given the fact that
inflation still is well above that 2%
target.
>> Yeah, still lingering there. I think
that was telegraphed by the Fed chair
during that meeting last week that
that's likely to persist. And and I
think those concerns about cracks in the
labor market persist here as well.
You again, just looking as Mike said at
that at this press report, seeing all
press release, seeing all of those empty
spaces is certainly glaring. And again,
I think over the course of the day we'll
learn more just of how this all fits
together in that broader picture of of
inflation here in the US.
>> What a fascinating moment. We got a Bank
of England rate cut going down with
rates to the lowest going back to 2023
at the same time that we got an ECB's
five-four split decision to hold rates
steady with concern about inflation even
though inflation is sub-2% and we have
now a Federal Reserve very much in focus
to potentially cut rates because
inflation didn't come in at 3%. It came
in at 2.7% year-over-year. It just
highlights how different the picture
really is for everybody.
>> Totally disparate. It was earlier this
week I was going through that long list
of all the central bank announcements
that we were going to get. And I think
we talked about what would be
interesting, what wouldn't. Certainly
some interesting news today from all
three of these three different banks.
>> from the ECB President Christine
Lagarde, who is currently speaking at
the news conference over in Europe. This
is the new year